Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEEP ONSHORE MODEL PRODUCTION SHARING CONTRACT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
  DEFINITIONS..................................................8 
 
ARTICLE 2 
  SCOPE.......................................................15 
 
ARTICLE 3 
  CONTRACT AREA...............................................17 
 
ARTICLE 4 
  CONTRACT TERM...............................................18 
 
ARTICLE 5 
  RELINQUISHMENTS.............................................20 
 
ARTICLE 6 
  RETAINED EXPLORATION AREA...................................23 
 
ARTICLE 7 
  MINIMUM EXPLORATION WORK PROGRAMME..........................24 
 
ARTICLE 8 
  GUARANTEES..................................................27 
 
ARTICLE 9 
  COORDINATION COMMITTEE......................................30 
 
ARTICLE 10 
  UNDERTAKING BY CONTRACTOR...................................31 
 
ARTICLE 11 
  ANCILLARY RIGHTS OF CONTRACTOR..............................36 
 
ARTICLE 12 
  ASSISTANCE BY THE MINISTER..................................37 
 
ARTICLE 13 
  DISCOVERY, COMMERCIALIZATION PROCEDURE......................38 
 
ARTICLE 14 
  EXPLORATION WORK PROGRAMME..................................45 
 
ARTICLE 15 
  DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION WORK PROGRAMMES AND BUDGETS......46 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
3
ARTICLE 16 
  NATURAL GAS.................................................48 
 
ARTICLE 17 
  BOOKS OF ACCOUNT, FINANCIAL REPORTING, AUDIT, AND COST      
  VERIFICATION................................................52 
 
ARTICLE 18 
  ALLOCATION OF PRODUCTION, RECOVERY OF COSTS55 AND EXPENSES,   
  PRODUCTION SHARING AND RIGHT OF EXPORT......................55 
 
ARTICLE 19 
  MEASUREMENT OF PETROLEUM....................................62 
 
ARTICLE 20 
  VALUATION...................................................64 
 
ARTICLE 21 
  FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS.......................................67 
 
ARTICLE 22 
  PAYMENT AND CURRENCY........................................71 
 
ARTICLE 23 
  MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT IMPORT DUTIES.......................72 
 
ARTICLE 24 
  OWNERSHIP OF ASSETS.........................................73 
 
ARTICLE 25 
  SUBCONTRACTORS, PERSONNEL AND TRAINING......................75 
 
ARTICLE 26 
  STATE'S RIGHT OF REQUISITION................................77 
 
ARTICLE 27 
  UNITIZATION.................................................78 
 
ARTICLE 28 
  CONFIDENTIALITY.............................................79 
 
ARTICLE 29 
  PIPELINES...................................................81 
 
ARTICLE 30 
  INSURANCE...................................................82 
 
ARTICLE 31 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
4
  ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER.....................................83 
 
ARTICLE 32 
  APPLICABLE LAW..............................................85 
 
ARTICLE 33 
  CONSULTATION, EXPERT DETERMINATION AND ARBITRATION..........86 
 
ARTICLE 34 
  FORCE MAJEURE...............................................88 
 
ARTICLE 35 
  NOTICES.....................................................89 
 
ARTICLE 36 
  TERMINATION.................................................90 
 
ARTICLE 37 
  ABANDONMENT PROGRAMME, BUDGET AND ESCROW ACCOUNT............92 
 
ARTICLE 38 
  THE PETROLEUM ACT AND REGULATIONS...........................95 
 
ARTICLE 39 
  LOCAL CONTENT...............................................96 
 
ARTICLE 40 
  MISCELLANEOUS...............................................98 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX A 
 
CONTRACT AREA 
 
GEOGRAPHICAL DESCRIPTION OF BLOCK ---   ...  ... ...  
A-1 
 
 
 
ANNEX B 
 
REPORTS TO BE SUBMITTED BY CONTRACTOR ...  ...  ...  ... 
B-1 
 
 
ANNEX C 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
5
ACCOUNTING PROCEDURE 
 
ARTICLE 1 
  GENERAL PROVISIONS ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  
C-1 
 
ARTICLE 2 
  COSTS AND EXPENDITURES  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  
C-4 
 
ARTICLE 3 
  COST CENTRES  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  
C-12 
 
ARTICLE 4 
  VALUATION OF MATERIALS  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  
C-15 
 
ARTICLE 5 
  RECEIPTS  ...  ...  ... ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  
C-17 
 
ARTICLE 6 
  NON-RECOVERABLE COSTS   ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  
C-18 
 
ARTICLE 7 
  INVENTORIES AND INVENTORY STATEMENT    ...  ...  ...  
C-20 
 
ARTICLE 8 
  PRODUCTION STATEMENT   ...  ...  ...   ...  ...  ...  
C-22 
 
ARTICLE 9 
  COST RECOVERY STATEMENT     ...  ...   ...  ...  ...  
C-24 
 
ARTICLE 10 
  STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES   ...  ...   ...  ...  ...  
C-25 
 
ARTICLE 11 
  CONTROL STATEMENTS AND OTHER ACCOUNTS  ...  ...  ...  
C-26 
 
Article 12 
  Local Content  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ... ...  
C-27 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
6
PRODUCTION SHARING CONTRACT 
 
This Contract made this           day of            2006 among the 
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO, His Excellency 
George Maxwell Richards, Intendant of State Lands (hereinafter 
referred to as "the President") of the FIRST PART, THE MINISTER OF 
ENERGY AND ENERGY INDUSTRIES, Senator the Honourable Dr. Lenny 
Saith (hereinafter referred to as "Minister") of the SECOND PART 
and ---------------------------- registered in the Republic of 
Trinidad and Tobago under the Companies Act and having a place of 
business at -- -------------------------------------, the Republic 
of Trinidad and Tobago and ---------------------------------- 
registered in Trinidad and Tobago under the Companies Act and 
having a place of business at ----------------------------- the 
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (hereinafter collectively referred 
to as "Contractor") of the THIRD PART. 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6(3) of The Petroleum Act Chapter 
62:01 of the Laws of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago 
(hereinafter referred to as "the Act") Minister is authorized to 
enter into Production Sharing Contracts for the carrying out of 
Petroleum Operations upon such terms and conditions as the Cabinet 
may approve. 
 
WHEREAS, Minister acting as the agent of the Government, is 
responsible for the collection of revenues accruing under this 
Contract. 
 
AND WHEREAS, Minister, under Regulation 4 of the Petroleum 
Regulations made under the Act, issued on the day of, 2005, the 
Petroleum Regulations (Competitive Bidding) Order 2005 published as 
Legal Notice No. 9 of 2006 by which bids were invited for certain 
onshore and submarine areas described in the First Schedule 
therein. 
 
AND WHEREAS, Contractor submitted a bid on _______,2006    in 
accordance with and pursuant to the said Order.  
 
AND WHEREAS, Contractor has represented to Minister that it has the 
requisite technical and financial capabilities to carry out 
Petroleum Operations and wishes to assist the Government in 
thoroughly evaluating the Petroleum potential and promptly and 
efficiently developing Petroleum resources discovered in the 
Contract Area. 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
7
AND WHEREAS, by Cabinet Minute No.---- dated -------- --, 2006 the 
Cabinet approved this Contract. 
 
 
NOW therefore, in consideration of the premises, mutual covenants 
and conditions herein contained, it is hereby agreed as follows: 
 
 
 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
8
ARTICLE 1   
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
The following words and terms used in this Contract shall unless 
otherwise expressly specified in the Contract have the following 
respective meanings: 
 
1.1  
"Accounting Procedure" means the Accounting Procedure set 
out in Annex "C" hereto. 
 
1.2  
"Affiliate" means any entity directly or indirectly 
effectively controlling or effectively controlled by, or under 
direct or indirect effective common control with a specified entity 
or which is directly or indirectly controlled by a company or 
corporation that also directly or indirectly controls one of the 
parties comprising Contractor. For the purpose of this definition 
"control" when used with respect to any specified entity means the 
power to direct, administer and dictate policies of such entity (it 
being understood and agreed that it is not necessary to own 
directly or indirectly fifty percent (50%) or more of such entity's 
voting securities to have effective control over such entity, but 
ownership, direct or indirect, of fifty percent (50%) or more of 
such entity's voting securities shall automatically indicate 
effective control), and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" 
have meanings corresponding to the foregoing. 
 
1.3  
"Appraisal" or "Appraisal Programme" means all works 
carried out by Contractor following a Discovery of Petroleum in the 
Contract Area for the purpose of delineating one or more Petroleum 
reservoirs to which that Discovery relates in terms of thickness 
and lateral extent and in order to further define the quantity of 
recoverable Petroleum therein. 
 
1.4  
"Appraisal Area" means that area surrounding a Discovery 
encompassing the geological structure or feature of the Discovery 
and a reasonable margin not exceeding 0.5km as approved by Minister 
from time to time. 
 
1.5  
"Assessment Plan" means a plan submitted pursuant to 
Article 13.3 for the purpose of evaluating a Natural Gas Discovery 
in sufficient detail to be able to seek a market for the Natural 
Gas. 
 
1.6  
"Associated Natural Gas" means all Natural Gas produced 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
9
from any reservoir the predominant production of which is Crude Oil 
and which is separated from Crude Oil in accordance with normal 
oilfield practice including free gas cap, but shall exclude any 
liquid hydrocarbon extracted from such gas either by normal field 
separation, dehydration or in a gas plant. 
 
1.7  
"Available Crude Oil" means all Crude Oil produced and 
saved from the Contract Area and not used in Petroleum Operations. 
 
1.8  
"Available Natural Gas" means all Natural Gas produced 
and saved from the Contract Area and not used in Petroleum 
Operations. 
 
1.9  
"Available Petroleum" means all Available Crude Oil and 
Available Natural Gas. 
 
1.10  
"Barrel" means a unit of volume equal to forty-two (42) 
United States gallons, liquid measure, corrected to a temperature 
of sixty (60) degrees Fahrenheit and fourteen point seven (14.7) 
p.s.i.a. 
 
1.11  
"Calendar Quarter" means a period of three (3) 
consecutive Months beginning on the first day of January, April, 
July, or October. 
 
1.12  
"Calendar Year" means a period of twelve (12) consecutive 
Months beginning on the first day of January and ending on the 
following thirty first day of December in the same year. 
 
1.13  
"Commercial Discovery" means a Discovery that Contractor 
proposes to develop and produce under the terms of the Contract. 
 
1.14  
"Commercial Production" means regular and continuous 
production of Petroleum from a Production Area pursuant to an 
annual production schedule approved under Article 15. 
 
1.15  
"Contract" or "Production Sharing Contract" means this 
Contract and any subsequent amendments. 
 
1.16  
"Contract Area" means the area specified in Article 3 
hereof and delineated on the map set out in Annex A, as modified 
and reconfigured from time to time in accordance with the 
stipulations of this Contract. 
 
1.17  
"Contractor" means --------------------------------------
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
10
----------------------------------and includes its/their respective 
successors and permitted assignees. 
 
1.18  
"Contract Year" means a period of twelve (12) consecutive 
months within the term of this Contract, beginning on the Effective 
Date or any anniversary thereof. 
 
1.19  
"Coordination Committee" means the committee composed of 
representatives of 
Minister 
and Contractor 
constituted in 
accordance with Article 9. 
 
1.20      “Cost Recovery” means the recovery of costs and expenses 
in accordance with Article 18.7. 
 
1.21  
"Crude Oil" means any hydrocarbon produced from the 
Contract Area which at standard conditions of temperature and 
pressure (60 degrees Fahrenheit and 14.7 p.s.i.a.) is in a liquid 
state at the wellhead or separator, or distillate and condensate 
which is extracted from gas or casing-head gas in a plant. 
 
1.22  
"Development" or "Development Operations" or "Development 
Work" shall include but not be limited to: 
 
(i) 
all the operations and activities under the Contract 
with respect to the drilling of wells  other than 
Exploration Wells and Appraisal wells, the deepening, 
plugging back, completing and equipping of such wells, 
together with the design, construction and installation of 
such equipment, pipelines or lines, installations, 
production units and all other systems relating to such 
wells as may be necessary in conformity with sound 
oilfield and generally prevailing environmental practices 
in the international Petroleum industry; 
 
(ii) all operations and activities relative to the 
servicing 
and 
maintenance 
of 
pipelines, 
lines, 
installations, production units and all related activities 
for Production and management of wells. 
 
1.23  
"Development Plan" means the plan for the development of 
a Commercial Discovery, as provided in Article 13. 
 
1.24  
"Discovery" means any Petroleum not previously known to 
have existed, which is recovered at the surface in a flow 
measurable by conventional Petroleum industry testing methods. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
11
 
1.25  
"Effective Date" means the date on which this Contract 
has been signed by all Parties. 
 
1.26  
"Energy Equivalent Basis" means the equivalent of Natural 
Gas in Barrels of Crude Oil with 5,800 standard cubic feet of 
Natural Gas being equivalent to one Barrel of Crude Oil. 
 
1.27  
"Exploration" 
or 
"Exploration 
Operations" 
means 
operations which shall include but not be limited to such 
geological, geophysical, and other surveys and any interpretation 
of data relating thereto, and the drilling of such shot holes, core 
holes, stratigraphic tests, Exploration Wells for the Discovery of 
Petroleum, Appraisal of Discoveries and other related operations. 
 
1.28  
"Exploration Period" means the period not exceeding six 
(6) Contract Years from the Effective Date divided into up to three 
(3) phases, as provided for in Article 4.1. 
 
1.29  
"Exploration Well" means any well drilled with the 
objective of confirming a geologic trap in which Petroleum has not 
been previously discovered. 
 
1.30 
Field" means an area within the Contract Area consisting 
of a Petroleum reservoir or multiple Petroleum reservoirs all 
grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural 
feature or stratigraphic conditions from which Petroleum may be 
produced commercially.  
 
1.31 
“Government” shall mean the Government of the Republic of 
Trinidad and Tobago. 
   
1.32  
“Local Content” means the local component of goods, 
services  and human resources employed  in the conduct of Petroleum 
Operations under this Contract.  
 
1.33  
“Local Content Policy” means the policy of the Government 
with respect to Local Content. 
 
1.34  
“Local Enterprise” means a person, firm or entity 
performing works, services and/or supplying goods and materials to 
Contractor, whether as a Sub-contractor or otherwise, whose 
business enterprise is incorporated or otherwise organised under 
the laws of Trinidad and Tobago and whose principal place of 
business is in Trinidad and Tobago and which is effectively owned 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
12
and controlled by nationals of Trinidad and Tobago. 
 
1.35  
"Local Goods" means materials and/or equipment mined, 
grown or produced in Trinidad and Tobago, whether through 
manufacturing or processing. An article, which is produced by 
manufacturing or processing, must differ substantially in its basic 
characteristics, purpose or utility from any of its imported 
components. Manufactured goods would be considered to be of local 
origin if the total cost of the local materials, labour and 
services used to produce the item constitute not less than fifty 
(50) percent of the cost of the finished product.  
 
1.36  
“Local Services” means works or services performed or 
supplied by a Local Enterprise. 
 
1.37  
"Measurement Point" means the location specified in the 
approved Development Plan within or outside of the Contract Area 
where the Petroleum is metered and delivered to Minister and 
Contractor. 
 
1.38  
"Minimum Exploration Programme" means the Exploration 
work to which Contractor has committed itself for each phase of the 
Exploration Period in accordance with Article 7. 
 
1.39  
"Minister" means the member of Cabinet to whom 
responsibility for matters related to Petroleum is assigned and his 
duly authorized delegates pursuant to Section 5 of the Act. 
 
1.40  
“Ministry” means the ministry in the Government to which 
responsibility for matters related to Petroleum is assigned.  
 
1.41  
"Month" or "Calendar Month" means any of the twelve 
months of the Calendar Year. 
 
1.42  
"Natural Gas" means all Petroleum which at standard 
conditions of temperature and pressure (60 degrees Fahrenheit and 
14.7 p.s.i.a.) is in a gaseous state, including wet gas, dry gas, 
and residue gas remaining after the extraction, processing or 
separation of liquid Petroleum from wet gas, as well as non-
Petroleum gas or gases produced in association with liquid or 
gaseous Petroleum. 
 
1.43  
"Natural Gas Field" means a Field from which more than 
fifty percent (50%) per cent of the estimated reserves on an Energy 
Equivalent Basis is Natural Gas at surface conditions. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
13
 
1.44  
"Non-associated 
Natural 
Gas" 
means 
all 
gaseous 
hydrocarbons produced from gas reservoirs, and includes wet gas, 
dry gas and residue gas remaining after the extraction of liquid 
hydrocarbons from wet gas. 
 
1.45  
"Operator" means the entity or one of the entities 
comprising Contractor which is in charge of the day to day 
activities of Contractor under this Contract.  The initial Operator 
shall be ------------------------------------------. No change in 
the Operator shall take effect unless it has been approved by 
Minister. 
 
1.46  
"Party" or "Parties" means Minister and Contractor and 
does not include any Subcontractor(s). 
 
1.47  
"Petroleum" means all natural organic substances composed 
of carbon and hydrogen. This includes Crude Oil and Natural Gas, 
and all other mineral substances, products, by-products and 
derivatives that are found in conjunction with such substances. 
 
1.48  
"Petroleum Operations" means the Exploration Operations, 
the Development Operations, the Production Operations, and all 
other activities related thereto carried out under this Contract, 
but excludes mining operations involving the extraction of 
Petroleum from bituminous shales, tar sands, asphalt or other like 
deposits. 
 
1.49  
"Petroleum Regulations" means the regulations made 
pursuant to the Act. 
 
1.50  
"Production Area" means the portion of the Contract Area 
specified in an approved Development Plan under Article 13.8. 
 
1.51  
"Production" or "Production Operations" shall include but 
not be limited to operations and all activities related thereto 
carried out for Petroleum production after Minister's approval of 
the Development Plan, such as extraction, injection, stimulation, 
treatment, 
transportation, 
storage, 
lifting, 
and 
related 
operations, but does not include any storage or transportation 
beyond the Measurement Point. 
 
1.52  
"Quarter" means a period of three (3) consecutive Months. 
 
1.53  
“Shallow Marine Block” means an acreage in which a 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
14
minimum of fifty (50%)percent of the area is located in water depth 
of less than one thousand metres.  
 
1.54  
"State" means the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.  
 
1.55  
"Subcontractor" means a specialized person, firm or 
entity contracted by Contractor to carry out specific work relative 
to Petroleum Operations under the supervision of and for the 
account of Contractor. 
 
1.56    “Taxable Production Sharing Contract” means the agreement 
in which each entity comprising Contractor is required to directly 
discharge its liability for Withholding Tax, Petroleum Profits Tax, 
Unemployment Levy, Green Fund Levy and any other taxes, or 
impositions, other than Supplemental Petroleum Tax, Petroleum 
Impost, Royalty, and Petroleum Production Levy. 
 
1.57  
“Transfer” shall include the following, whether voluntary 
or involuntary and whether effected by operation of law, or 
otherwise, any transfer of ownership or any part thereof of any 
entity comprising Contractor by sale, merger, consolidation, 
reorganisation or liquidation or any change in ownership or voting 
rights in a company or legal entity. 
 
 
1.58  
“Transferee” shall mean any person to whom any Transfer 
is made.  
 
1.59  
"Work Programme" means a programme itemizing the 
Petroleum Operations to be conducted with respect to the Contract 
Area and the time schedule for accomplishing such operations. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
15
ARTICLE 2 
 
SCOPE 
 
2.1  
This is a Production Sharing Contract, the object of 
which is the Exploration, Appraisal, Development and Production of 
Petroleum in the Contract Area and the provision of required 
infrastructure within and outside of the Contract Area up to the 
Measurement Point, all at Contractor's sole risk and expense. 
 
2.2  
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Contract, 
Minister hereby appoints Contractor as the exclusive agent to 
conduct Petroleum Operations in the Contract Area during the term 
of the Contract. It is hereby understood and agreed that nothing in 
this Contract shall confer ownership of Petroleum in strata to 
Contractor. 
 
2.3  
Contractor shall be responsible to Minister for the 
execution of such Petroleum Operations in accordance with the 
provisions of the Contract.  Without prejudice to Contractor's 
position as an independent contractor hereunder, the work to be 
done by Contractor shall be subject to the general supervision and 
review of Minister in accordance with the Contract. 
 
2.4  
In performing Petroleum Operations, Contractor shall 
provide the requisite financial resources and employ the highest 
industry standards, scientific methods, procedures, technologies 
and equipment accepted in the international Petroleum industry. 
 
2.5  
Contractor shall comply with the Local Content Policy of 
Trinidad and Tobago in effect as may be varied from time to time. 
In performing Petroleum Operations under the Contract, Contractor 
shall provide for the maximum utilization of services and 
facilities available from Local Enterprises. Contractor shall 
employ with priority local personnel in all aspects of Petroleum 
Operations. 
 
2.6  
Contractor shall receive no compensation for its 
services, nor any reimbursement of its expenditures under the 
Contract, except for the share of Petroleum from the Contract Area 
to which it may become entitled under Article 18. If there is no 
Commercial Discovery in the Contract Area or if Contractor’s share 
of the production achieved from Production Areas within the 
Contract Area developed by Contractor is insufficient to reimburse 
Contractor, Contractor shall bear its own losses. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
16
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
17
ARTICLE 3 
 
CONTRACT AREA 
 
3.1  
The Contract Area as of the Effective Date of the 
Contract comprises a total area of approximately ------------------
---------------------------------------------- (---,---) hectares, 
as described in Annex "A" attached hereto and delineated in the map 
which forms part thereof. 
 
3.2  
Except for the rights expressly provided by the Contract, 
no right is granted in favour of Contractor to the surface area, 
sea-bed, sub-soil or to any natural resources or aquatic resources. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
18
ARTICLE 4 
 
CONTRACT TERM 
 
4.1  
The Exploration Period shall be for a period not 
exceeding six (6) Contract Years from the Effective Date, divided 
into: 
 
- 
a first phase of ------ (-) years 
 
- 
an optional second phase of -----(-) years and 
 
- 
an optional third phase of ----- (-) years 
 
Contractor's right to enter the next phase is subject to it having 
fulfilled its obligations for the then current phase. 
 
4.2  
Contractor shall notify Minister of its election to enter 
the next phase at least ninety (90) days prior to expiration of the 
then current phase.  If Contractor does not so elect to enter the 
next phase, this Contract shall terminate as provided herein under 
terms and conditions to be agreed by Minister and Contractor at the 
end of the then current phase, with respect to any portion of the 
Contract Area not included in:  
 
(a) a Production Area; 
 
(b) Appraisal Areas subject to an extension pursuant to 
Article 4.3; 
 
(c) areas retained for a market development phase pursuant to 
Article 16.2; 
 
(d) areas retained for Exploration pursuant to 
Article 6.1; and 
 
(e) any areas then pending approval or then in dispute under 
Article 33. 
 
4.3  
Where 
insufficient 
time is 
available 
during the 
Exploration Period to complete the commercialization determination 
under an Appraisal Programme approved under Articles 13.2 or 13.4, 
Contractor shall have the right, upon written application to 
Minister not less than ninety (90) days before the end of the 
Exploration Period, to an extension of the term with respect to the 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
19
Appraisal Area until the date on which the evaluation report on 
such Discovery is due under Article 13.2 (d) or 13.4 (d). 
 
4.4  
In the event of a Commercial Discovery, the term of the 
Contract shall be twenty-five (25) years from the Effective Date 
with respect to the Production Area corresponding to such 
Commercial Discovery; provided, however, if the Commercial 
Discovery relates to a Natural Gas Field, the term of the Contract 
shall be twenty-five (25) years from the Effective Date plus the 
period of any market development phase granted and utilized in 
accordance with Article 16.2 and any extension granted in 
accordance with Article 16.6, with respect to the Production Area 
corresponding to such Natural Gas Field. 
 
4.5  
Contractor may request by notice to Minister at least one 
(1) year prior to the end of the term of the Contract to extend the 
duration of the Contract with respect to any Production Area for up 
to an additional five (5) years on terms and conditions to be 
mutually agreed between Minister and Contractor. 
 
4.6 
The Minister may grant further five (5) year extensions 
in the same manner as has been laid down in Article 4.5. 
 
4.7 
At the request of Contractor or Minister, the provisions 
of this Contract may be reviewed or renegotiated five years prior 
to the termination of the initial Contract term referred to in 
Article 4.4 provided that the Contract Profit Ratio is less than 
one (1) or greater than three and one half (3.5).  The Contract 
Profit Ratio shall be taken as the cumulative value of Contractor’s 
Profit Petroleum divided by the cumulative value of Cost Recovery 
Petroleum. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
20
ARTICLE 5 
 
RELINQUISHMENTS 
 
5.1  
Subject to Article 5.2, the Contract Area shall be 
reduced by: 
 
(a) at least forty percent (40%) of the original Contract 
Area, not later than the end of the first phase of the 
Exploration Period; 
 
(b) at least fifty percent(50%)of the original Contract 
Area(inclusive of areas previously relinquished), not later 
than the end of the second phase of the Exploration Period; 
 
(c) all portions of the original Contract Area, not later 
than the end of the Exploration Period under Article 4.1 with 
the exception of: 
 
(i) 
Production Areas; 
 
(ii) Appraisal Areas subject to an extension under 
Article 4.3; 
 
(iii) Natural Gas Discovery areas retained for a market 
development phase under Article 16.2; and 
 
(iv)  Exploration areas retained in accordance with 
Article 6.1; 
 
(d) any Appraisal Area subject to an extension under Article 
4.3 that is not declared a Commercial Discovery, by the end of 
the extension under Article 4.3; 
 
(e) any Natural Gas Discovery area retained pursuant to 
Article 16.2 that is not declared a Commercial Discovery, by 
the end of the market development phase granted under Article 
16.2; 
 
(f) any Production Area, not in Commercial Production by the 
end of five (5) years after declaration of Commercial 
Discovery for such area, within thirty (30) days after 
Minister's request for such relinquishment, and 
 
(g) any Exploration area retained pursuant to Article 6.1 for 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
21
which no approved Exploration Work Programme for such area is 
committed. 
 
5.2  
Subject only to Articles 5.1(f) and 5.6, Contractor shall 
not be required pursuant to Article 5.1 to relinquish any portion 
of the Contract Area designated as a Production Area. 
 
5.3  
Unless the Contract Area is earlier surrendered or the 
Contract terminated, Contractor shall furnish Minister with a 
description of the boundaries of the part to be relinquished not 
less than ninety (90) days in advance of the deadline for the 
relinquishment prescribed in Article 5.1. 
 
5.4  
The area designated under Article 5.3 for relinquishment 
shall be as far as practicable rectangular bounded by lines running 
due north and south and due east and west, having the longer side 
no more than three (3) times the shorter side.  Unless Minister 
specifically consents, no individual block relinquished shall be 
less than thirty percent (30%) of the total area being relinquished 
at such time.   
 
5.5  
Article 5.4 shall also apply where a Contractor 
voluntarily surrenders a part of the Contract Area. 
 
5.6  
Contractor shall relinquish rights to conduct Petroleum 
Operations in a Production Area upon request of Minister where, for 
reasons other than force majeure or scheduled maintenance under an 
approved Work Programme and budget, Contractor has ceased normal 
production of such Production Area for more than one hundred and 
eighty (180) consecutive days. 
 
5.7  
No relinquishment shall relieve Contractor of accrued, 
but unfulfilled obligations under the Contract. In the event that 
Contractor desires to relinquish its rights hereunder in all of the 
Contract Area without having fulfilled all accrued Minimum Work 
Programme under Article 7, Contractor or its guarantor shall pay 
Minister prior to the date of such proposed total relinquishment an 
amount equal to the remaining amount of the non-discharged 
guarantees under Article 8 corresponding to such accrued, but 
unfulfilled work obligations. 
 
5.8  
Prior to relinquishment of any area, Contractor shall 
perform all necessary 
abandonment 
programme 
activities in 
accordance with the highest internationally accepted petroleum 
industry standards to restore such area as nearly as possible to 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
22
the condition in which it existed on the Effective Date, including 
removal of such facilities, equipment or installations as Minister 
may instruct, and shall take action necessary to prevent hazards to 
human life, property and the environment which may be caused by its 
facilities, equipment or installations. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
23
ARTICLE 6 
 
RETAINED EXPLORATION AREA 
 
6.1  
Where Contractor declares a Commercial Discovery in the 
Contract Area during the Exploration Period specified in Article 
4.1 or any extension as provided for under Article 4.3, Contractor 
shall have the option, exercisable by notice to Minister at least 
one hundred and twenty (120) days before the relinquishment 
required under Article 5.1(c), to retain up to twenty percent (20%) 
of the original Contract Area or an area to be mutually agreed by 
Minister and Contractor if justified by Contractor's Work Programme 
for ongoing Exploration. The notice to Minister: 
 
(a) shall specify the coordinates of the Exploration area 
selected for retention, which  shall be comprised of no more 
than two (2) separate rectangular blocks that comply with the 
specifications stated in Article 5.4; and 
  
(b) shall contain Contractor's proposed Exploration Work 
Programme and budget corresponding to such area for the 
balance of the current Calendar Year and the next two Calendar 
Years. 
 
Provided Minister approves the Exploration Work Programme and 
budget submitted with the aforementioned notice, Contractor shall 
have the right to conduct Petroleum Operations in the retained 
Exploration area for the approved period.  
 
6.2  
If Contractor wishes to retain any portion of the 
Exploration area selected under Article 6.1 beyond the date for 
which an agreed programme is committed, Contractor shall propose, 
for Minister's approval, an Exploration Work Programme and budget 
for the next two (2) Calendar Year periods. Such proposal shall be 
presented to Minister at least ninety (90) days before the end of 
the period for which an Exploration Work Programme has been 
approved. 
 
6.3  
Notwithstanding the guarantees committed to under Article 
8, Contractor shall complete the Work Programme as agreed to under 
this Article. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
24
ARTICLE 7 
 
MINIMUM EXPLORATION WORK PROGRAMME 
 
7.1  
Contractor 
shall 
commence 
Exploration 
Operations 
hereunder within ninety (90) days after the Effective Date.  Such 
Exploration Operations shall be diligently and continuously carried 
out in accordance with the best current international Petroleum 
industry practice for the duration of the Exploration Period. 
 
7.2  
During the first phase of the Exploration Period, 
Contractor shall carry out at least the following Minimum 
Exploration Programme: 
 
(a) Geological: 
 
 
Evaluate, integrate and map all data related to the      
Contract Area. 
 
(b) Geophysical: 
 
(i) Acquire and process to industry standards at least ------
------------ (-----) square kilometres of 3D seismic resulting 
in full fold coverage of approximately ---------------------- 
(----), with shooting to commence within fifteen (15) months 
after the Effective Date. 
 
(ii) Evaluate, integrate and map all seismic data related to 
the Contract Area. 
 
(c) Drilling: 
 
Drilling of at least --- Exploration Wells, to depths of at least -
------------ (----) metres, true vertical depth with spudding of 
the first such well to be not later than thirty (30) Months after 
the Effective Date. 
 
7.3  
During the optional second phase of the Exploration 
Period, Contractor shall carry out at least the following Minimum 
Exploration Programme: 
 
(a) Geological: 
 
 
Evaluate, integrate and map all data related to the Contract 
Area. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
25
 
(b) Geophysical: 
 
(i) Acquire and process to industry standards at least ------
------------ (-----)square kilometers of 3D seismic resulting 
in full fold coverage of approximately ---------------------- 
(------) square kilometres. 
 
(ii) Evaluate, integrate and map all seismic data related to 
Contract Area. 
 
(c) Drilling: 
 
Drilling of at least --- Exploration Wells, to depths of at least -
------------ (----) metres, true vertical depth. 
 
 
7.4  
During the optional third phase of the Exploration 
Period, Contractor shall carry out at least the following Minimum 
Exploration Programme: 
 
 
(a) Geological: 
 
 Evaluate, integrate and map all data related to the      
Contract Area. 
 
(b) Geophysical: 
 
(i) 
Acquire and process to industry standards at least -
----------------- (-----) square kilometers of 3D seismic 
resulting in full fold coverage of approximately ---------
------------- (------) square kilometres. 
 
(ii) Evaluate, integrate and map all seismic data related 
to Contract Area. 
 
(c) Drilling: 
 
Drilling of at least --- Exploration Wells, to depths of at 
least ------------- (----) metres, true vertical depth. 
 
7.5  
For purposes of the Minimum Exploration Programme under 
Articles 7.2 through Article 7.4: 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
26
(a) The obligations related to the second phase or third 
phase of the Exploration Period will accrue only if Contractor 
elects to enter such subsequent phase by notice pursuant to 
Article 4.1. 
 
(b) In the event that an Exploration Well attains the minimum 
depth requirement in a prospective zone, Contractor shall be 
required to continue drilling to a depth which will ensure 
penetration of and allow for the proper testing of the entire 
prospective 
zone, 
provided 
such 
further 
drilling 
is 
technically feasible. 
 
(c) Additional line kilometres of seismic and additional 
Exploration Wells beyond the minimum required for any phase of 
the Exploration Period may be carried forward to satisfy the 
respective seismic and drilling obligations of a subsequent 
phase of the Exploration Period. 
 
7.6  
Neither Appraisal wells, seismic surveys nor any other 
Petroleum Operations carried out as part of an Appraisal Programme 
or Assessment Plan approved under Article 13 shall discharge 
Contractor of obligations in respect of the Minimum Exploration 
Programme. 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
27
ARTICLE 8 
 
GUARANTEES 
 
8.1  
Within seven (7) days after the Effective Date of the 
Contract, upon commencement of each subsequent phase of the 
Exploration Period entered into under Article 4 and within seven 
(7) days of approval being granted for an Exploration Work 
Programme under Article 6 or for any additional Exploration or 
Appraisal Work Programme pursuant to Article 13.6(c), Contractor 
shall provide Minister with irrevocable guarantees from a guarantor 
of financial substance acceptable to Minister for an amount equal 
to: 
 
(a) the respective amounts specified in Article 8.2, of 
carrying out the Work Programmes under Articles 6, 7 and 
13.6(c);and 
 
(b) the sum of two hundred thousand (200,000) dollars in the 
currency of the United States of America for the performance 
of any obligation under the Contract other than those covered 
by the guarantees under (a) above.  
 
Such guarantees shall be in a form and substance acceptable to 
Minister. 
 
8.2  
The respective amounts of the guarantees for obligations 
arising out of Work Programmes referred to in Article 8.1 shall be: 
 
(a) For the first phase of the Exploration 
Period                   - US$--------- 
 
(b) For the second phase of the Exploration 
Period                   - US$---------- 
 
(c) For the third phase of the Exploration 
Period                   - US$--------- 
 
(d) For any retained Exploration area, the estimated cost of 
the Work Programme that Contractor commits itself to carry out 
under Article 6.  
 
(e) For any additional Exploration or Appraisal Work 
Programme, pursuant to Article 13.6(c), the estimated cost of 
the Work Programme that Contractor commits itself to carry out 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
28
under Article 13.6(c) from time to time. 
 
8.3  
Upon delivery to the issuing guarantor of a certificate 
from Contractor countersigned on behalf of Minister by a duly 
authorized official that the corresponding items of work have been 
completed in accordance with the Contract and that all technical 
data related thereto has been delivered to Minister the 
guarantee(s) shall be reduced in accordance with the following 
schedule:  
 
(a) by an amount of ---------------------------------- (-----
----) US dollars upon completion of 
the first phase. 
 
(b) by an amount of ----------------------------------  (----
-----) US dollars upon completion of the second phase. 
 
(c) by an amount of ---------------------------------- (-----
----) US dollars upon completion of the third phase. 
 
(d) by an amount equal to the estimated cost of the Work 
Programme agreed to under Article 6.  
 
(e) by an amount equal to the estimated cost of the Work 
Programme agreed to under Article 13.6 (c) from time to time.  
 
8.4 Where Contractor has failed to perform in accordance with this 
Contract all or any part of accrued Work Programmes: 
  
a) 
at the end of any phase of the Exploration Period,  
 
b) 
at the end of an approved period in respect of a retained 
Exploration area pursuant to Article 6,or  
 
c) 
at the end of an approved period in respect of an 
additional Exploration or Appraisal Work Programme pursuant to 
Article 13.6(c),or 
 
d) 
upon termination of this Contract,  
 
Contractor or its guarantor shall on demand from Minister 
immediately pay Minister the entire remaining amount of such 
outstanding guarantee or guarantees. 
 
8.5  
Contractor shall deliver to Minister within seven (7) 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
29
days after the Effective Date of the Contract in a form acceptable 
to Minister an undertaking from the ultimate parent company that 
such parent company shall provide all technical and financial 
resources that its subsidiary may require to meet on a timely basis 
Contractor's obligations under the Contract. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
30
ARTICLE 9 
 
COORDINATION COMMITTEE 
 
9.1  
Within ten (10) days after the Effective Date, a 
Coordination Committee composed of four (4) members, two (2) of 
whom shall be appointed by Minister and two (2) by Contractor, 
shall be established.  A Party, by at least ten (10) days' notice 
to the other Party, may replace one or more of its members on the 
Coordination Committee.  The chairman of the Coordination Committee 
shall be appointed by Minister from the members appointed by him, 
and the secretary shall be named by Contractor from among its 
appointees. Additional representatives of either Party may attend 
meetings as observers or alternate members. 
 
9.2  
The mandate of the Coordination Committee is to assist 
Contractor in its activities under this Contract by providing a 
forum for a continuous dialogue and flow of information between 
Contractor and Minister regarding Contractor's planned activities 
and progress related to the Contract Area.  The Committee shall 
review proposals for revisions to agreed Work Programmes and 
budgets and periodically evaluate Contractor's progress in respect 
of approved Work Programmes, budgets, local content initiatives and 
other matters related to Petroleum Operations under this Contract. 
 
9.3  
Ordinary meetings of the Coordination Committee shall be 
held quarterly in Port of Spain, or any other location agreed by 
the Parties. Special meetings of the Coordination Committee may be 
called on reasonable notice by either Party for the purpose of 
considering any major development or problems in Petroleum 
Operations. 
 
9.4  
The secretary's minutes of a meeting shall be prepared, 
and circulated within fourteen (14) days after adjournment of the 
meeting.  A copy of such minutes shall be delivered to each of the 
Parties for information and appropriate action. 
 
9.5  
The Coordination Committee may from time to time 
designate one or more technical committees, composed of specialists 
appointed by the Parties to assist as required. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
31
ARTICLE 10 
 
UNDERTAKING BY CONTRACTOR 
 
10.1  
Resident Representative:  Within thirty (30) days after 
the Effective Date Contractor shall designate a representative 
residing in Trinidad and Tobago who shall have full authority to 
represent it in respect of matters related to the Contract and to 
receive notices addressed to Contractor. 
 
10.2  
Office:  Within ninety (90) days after the Effective 
Date, Contractor shall establish and maintain an office in Trinidad 
and Tobago with sufficient competence and capacity to conduct and 
perform Petroleum Operations in accordance with the terms of this 
Contract. 
 
10.3  
Conduct of Petroleum Operations:  Contractor shall 
conduct Petroleum Operations hereunder in a continuous, diligent, 
and workmanlike manner, in accordance with applicable law and the 
Contract, and the best current international petroleum industry 
practices and environmental standards applicable from time to time 
in similar circumstances, all designed to achieve efficient and 
safe Exploration and Production of Petroleum and to maximize the 
ultimate economic recovery of Petroleum from the Contract Area.  In 
this regard, Contractor shall ensure that all materials, equipment, 
technologies and facilities used in Petroleum Operations comply 
with the best engineering and environmental standards accepted in 
the international petroleum industry, and are kept in good working 
order. 
 
10.4  
Local Content Commitment: Contractor shall comply with 
the Local Content Policy of Trinidad and Tobago in effect from time 
to time. In performing Petroleum Operations under the Contract, 
Contractor shall provide for the maximum utilization of goods, 
services and facilities available in Trinidad and Tobago in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 25.2. Contractor shall 
employ with priority local personnel in all aspects of Petroleum 
Operations and shall undertake the training and development of such 
personnel in accordance with the provisions of Article 25.6. The 
Work Programmes and budgets submitted and reported pursuant to 
Articles 14 and 15 should indicate Contractor’s estimate of the 
Local Content component of ongoing Petroleum Operations.   
 
10.5  
Notification of Work:  Contractor shall provide Minister 
with regular and complete information concerning all Petroleum 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
32
Operations and shall present to Minister prior to execution of 
specific work information relative thereto. 
 
10.6  
Records:  Contractor shall prepare and maintain in 
Trinidad and Tobago at all times during the term of the Contract 
accurate and current records of its Petroleum Operations hereunder. 
 
10.7  
Reports:  In accordance with Annex "B", Contractor shall 
submit to Minister detailed daily drilling reports and monthly 
physical progress reports covering in reasonable detail all the 
activities carried out under this Contract, as well as all other 
reports as may be required by Minister. 
 
10.8  
Comprehensive Technical and Commercial Evaluation:  
Within ninety (90) days after completion of the Minimum Exploration 
Programmes under Articles 7.2, 7.3 and 7.4 respectively, and Work 
Programmes under Articles 6 and 13, Contractor shall prepare and 
present to Minister a comprehensive technical and commercial 
evaluation of the Petroleum potential of those portions of the 
Contract Area for which Exploration Operations and other activities 
have been performed or evaluated by the work conducted. 
 
10.9  
Data: Contractor shall provide Minister in accordance 
with Annex "B" any and all data, reports, samples, information, 
interpretation of such data and all other information or work 
product pertaining to the Contract Area including in particular all 
data for which the cost was recorded by Contractor as a cost of 
Petroleum Operations. Contractor may retain for use in Petroleum 
Operations hereunder copies of technical data. All original data 
shall be delivered by Contractor to Minister not later than the end 
of the term of the Contract. Subject to the prior approval of 
Minister, Contractor may: 
  
(a) export original data;   
 
(b) retain for use in Petroleum Operations hereunder original 
technical data; 
 
(c) export for processing or laboratory examination or 
analysis, samples or other original materials, provided 
that samples equivalent in size and quality or, where 
such material is capable of reproduction, copies of 
equivalent quality have first been delivered to Minister.  
  
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
33
10.10 
Inspection by Minister:   
 
(a) Contractor shall enable at all reasonable times the duly 
authorized representatives of Minister and other agencies of 
the Government to inspect any part of Petroleum Operations and 
all facilities, installations, offices, records, books or data 
related to Petroleum Operations. 
 
(b) All duly authorized representatives of Minister and other 
agencies of the Government agree to abide by the posted or 
published safety rules of Contractor during such inspections. 
 
10.11 
Use of Facilities: Contractor shall provide facilities to 
a reasonable number of duly authorized representatives of Minister 
and other agencies of the Government to perform their duties and 
obligations in relation to this Contract, including in the case of 
field operations, transportation, lodging, food and other amenities 
at equal conditions as those supplied by Contractor to its own 
staff. 
 
10.12 
Loss or Damage: Contractor shall bear responsibility in 
accordance with applicable law for any loss or damage to third 
parties caused by its employees' or Subcontractors' wrongful or 
negligent acts or omissions and indemnify Minister and the 
Government against all claims and liabilities in respect thereof. 
 
10.13 
Legal Proceedings: Contractor shall give Minister timely 
notice of any legal proceedings in relation to this Contract. 
 
10.14 
Environment, 
Pollution, 
Safety: 
While 
conducting 
Petroleum Operations and in accordance with the highest sound and 
current international Petroleum industry practice, Contractor shall 
take and ensure that its Subcontractors and agents take necessary 
measures for safety of life; conservation of property, crops, fish, 
wildlife and navigation; protection of the environment; prevention 
of pollution; and safety and health of personnel, including but not 
limited to: 
 
(a) ensuring security areas around all machinery and 
equipment; 
 
(b) erecting of fences, if applicable, at a distance of not 
less than fifty (50) metres from any drilling rig, generator, 
or other equipment of a dangerous nature; 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
34
(c) providing secure storage areas for all explosives, 
detonators, and similar dangerous materials used in Petroleum 
Operations; 
 
(d) preventing pollution or damage to any water-bearing 
formations and other natural resources; 
 
(e) containing any blowout, fire or other emergency situation 
that would result in loss of reserves or damage to the 
reservoir; 
 
(f) preventing 
unintentional 
entrance 
of 
fluids 
into 
Petroleum formations and the production of Crude Oil or 
Natural Gas from reservoirs at higher rates than consistent 
with good Petroleum industry practice; 
 
(g) taking all necessary precautions to prevent pollution of 
or damage to the environment including the undertaking of 
remedial measures within a reasonable period to repair or 
offset damage to the environment in cases where Minister 
determines that any works or installations erected by 
Contractor or any operations conducted by or on behalf of 
Contractor endanger third party property or cause pollution or 
harm wildlife or the environment, including where pollution 
occurs promptly to treat or disperse it in an environmentally 
acceptable manner; 
 
(h) reporting to Minister within twenty-four (24) hours in 
cases of death or serious injury to workers in the performance 
of duties connected with Petroleum Operations; 
 
(i) arranging an adequate supply of first-aid medicines and 
equipment in each area and maintaining a healthy environment 
for the workers; 
 
(j) providing safety and fire-fighting equipment and training 
of personnel in the use of such equipment in each work area; 
and 
 
(k) participating in the National Oil Spill Contingency Plan, 
as is in force from time to time, and, in addition and without 
prejudice to its obligations thereunder, preparing and 
submitting to Minister for approval prior to commencing any 
drilling activities, an oil spill and fire contingency plan, 
which plan shall be implemented in the event of such a 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
35
catastrophe. 
 
10.15 
 
Joint Operating Agreement: In the event there is 
more than one entity comprising Contractor, a joint operating 
agreement between the entities shall be executed within ninety (90) 
days of the Effective Date and submitted to Minister for his 
information. Contractor shall also supply to Minister for his 
information any other agreements executed by the entities 
comprising Contractor relating to the conduct of Petroleum 
Operations under this Contract within ten days of execution of such 
agreements. Changes made to any of these agreements shall be 
submitted to Minister for his information within ten days of the 
execution of such changes. 
 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
36
ARTICLE 11 
 
ANCILLARY RIGHTS OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
11.1  
Contractor shall for the efficient conduct of Petroleum 
Operations have the right subject to appropriate arrangements with 
other operators and/or relevant authorities and as approved by 
Minister: 
 
(a) to reasonable access to and from the Contract Area and to 
and from facilities pertaining to Petroleum Operations 
hereunder wherever located at all times, and to use of the 
land required; and 
 
(b) to use in Petroleum Operations sand, gravel and water 
belonging to the public domain  in accordance with the 
relevant laws and on payment of the generally prevailing 
charge for such resources in the locality of use. 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
37
ARTICLE 12 
 
ASSISTANCE BY THE MINISTER 
 
12.1  
To 
enable 
Contractor 
to 
implement 
the 
Contract 
expeditiously and efficiently, Minister shall when specifically 
requested by Contractor assist Contractor among other things, in: 
 
(a) obtaining right to use land, rights of way, permits 
and/or easements as may be required for the conduct of 
Petroleum Operations; 
 
(b) obtaining licences or permits for transportation and 
communication facilities; 
 
(c) complying with import/ export controls and regulations 
and custom formalities and where applicable obtaining 
exemptions from customs and other duties; 
 
(d) obtaining entry and exit visas for the foreign employees 
of Contractor and foreign Subcontractors who may come to 
Trinidad and Tobago for the implementation of the Contract, 
and members of their families;  
 
(e) obtaining relevant work permits; 
 
(f) obtaining 
access 
to 
all 
geological, 
geophysical, 
drilling, well and production information in the Contract 
Area; and 
 
(g) dealing with Government authorities in general. 
 
12.2  
The Minister shall be promptly reimbursed by Contractor 
for all reasonable expenses incurred in providing the assistance 
requested by Contractor in accordance with this Article 12.  
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
38
ARTICLE 13 
 
DISCOVERY, COMMERCIALIZATION PROCEDURE 
 
 
If a Discovery is made in an Exploration Well, Contractor shall:  
 
(a) immediately notify Minister of such Discovery;  
 
(b) within thirty (30) days thereafter provide Minister with 
all available information regarding the Discovery, including a 
preliminary classification of the Discovery as Crude Oil or 
Natural Gas; and 
 
(c) within ninety (90) days after such Discovery, also notify 
Minister whether: 
 
(i) 
it considers the Discovery of Crude Oil or Natural 
Gas to have commercial potential; or 
 
(ii) it does not consider the Discovery of Crude Oil or 
Natural Gas to have commercial potential. 
 
13.2  (a) If Contractor pursuant to Article 13.1 (c)(i) notifies 
Minister that a Discovery of Crude Oil has commercial 
potential, it shall within thirty (30) days after such notice 
present to Minister for approval an Appraisal Programme. The 
Appraisal Programme shall be deemed approved as submitted if 
Minister does not respond in writing within sixty (60) days of 
receipt thereof.  
 
(b) The Appraisal Programme shall: 
 
(i) 
specify in reasonable detail the Appraisal work 
including seismic, drilling of wells and studies to be 
carried out, the estimated cost of these works and the 
time frame within which Contractor shall commence and 
complete the programme; and 
 
(ii) identify the Appraisal Area.  
 
(c) Contractor shall carry out the approved Appraisal 
Programme under Article 13.2(a) within the time frame 
specified therein.  Contractor may amend the Appraisal 
Programme subject to Minister's prior approval. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
39
 
(d) Within ninety (90) days after completion of the Appraisal 
Programme Contractor shall submit to Minister a comprehensive 
evaluation report on the Appraisal Programme.  Such evaluation 
report shall include, but not be limited to, the following 
information: geological conditions, such as structural 
configuration; physical properties and extent of reservoir 
rocks; pressure, volume and temperature analysis of the 
reservoir fluid; fluid characteristics, including gravity and 
composition of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, sulphur 
percentage, sediment and water percentage, and product yield 
pattern; production forecasts (per well and per Field); and 
estimates of recoverable reserves, projected delivery rate and 
pressure, quality specifications and other relevant technical 
and economic factors including economic feasibility studies 
carried out by Contractor in respect of its declaration made 
under Article 13.6. 
 
13.3 (a) If Contractor pursuant to Article 13.1(c)(i) notifies 
Minister that a Discovery of Natural Gas has commercial 
potential, it shall within ninety (90) days after such notice 
present to Minister for approval a plan for assessing the 
Discovery in sufficient detail to be able to seek a market for 
the Natural Gas ("Assessment Plan"). The Assessment Plan shall 
be deemed approved as submitted if Minister does not respond 
within sixty (60) days of receipt thereof.  
 
(b) The Assessment Plan shall: 
 
(i) specify in reasonable detail the work that is needed 
to assess the Discovery, including seismic, drilling of 
wells and studies to be carried out, the estimated cost 
of these works and the time frame within which Contractor 
shall commence and complete such works. 
 
(ii) identify the Assessment Plan area which shall not 
exceed the area encompassing the geological structure or 
feature in which the Discovery is made and a reasonable 
margin surrounding such structure or feature to be 
mutually agreed by Minister and Contractor. 
 
(c) Contractor shall carry out the approved Assessment Plan 
under Article 13.3(a) within the time frame specified therein. 
Contractor may amend the Assessment Plan subject to Minister's 
prior approval. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
40
 
(d) Within ninety (90) days after completion of the 
Assessment Plan, Contractor shall submit to Minister a 
comprehensive evaluation report on the Assessment Plan.  Such 
evaluation report shall include all available information 
related to the Discovery and a preliminary evaluation of its 
technical and economic factors including economic feasibility 
studies relevant to the determination of a market for 
available Natural Gas. 
 
(e) Upon submission of the evaluation report under Article 
13.3(d) Contractor shall notify Minister whether or not based 
on the results of its Assessment Plan it wishes to retain the 
Natural Gas Discovery for a market development phase in 
accordance with Article 16.2. 
 
 
13.4 (a) (i) As a condition for declaring Commercial Discovery of 
a Natural Gas Field, Contractor shall conduct an 
Appraisal Programme acceptable to Minister. 
  
 
 
(ii) As soon as Contractor develops an acceptable market 
for Natural Gas, but in any event within the term of the 
Contract including any market development phase granted 
under Article 16.2, Contractor shall apply to Minister 
for approval and upon approval being granted forthwith 
carry out an Appraisal Programme of the Natural Gas 
Discovery. 
 
(b) The Appraisal Programme shall: 
 
(i) specify in reasonable detail the Appraisal work 
including seismic, drilling of wells and studies to be 
carried out, the estimated cost of these works and the 
time frame within which Contractor shall commence and 
complete the programme; and 
 
(ii) identify the Appraisal Area. 
 
(c) Contractor shall carry out the approved Appraisal 
Programme under Article 13.4(a) within the time frame 
specified therein.  Contractor may amend the Appraisal 
Programme subject to Minister's prior approval. 
 
(d) Within ninety (90) days after completion of the Appraisal 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
41
Programme Contractor shall submit to Minister a comprehensive 
evaluation report on the Appraisal Programme.  Such evaluation 
report shall include, but not be limited to, the following 
information: geological conditions, such as structural 
configuration; physical properties and extent of reservoir 
rocks; pressure, volume and temperature analysis of the 
reservoir fluid; fluid characteristics, including gravity and 
composition of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, sulphur 
percentage, sediment and water percentage, and product yield 
pattern; production forecasts (per well and per Field); and 
estimates of recoverable reserves, projected delivery rate and 
pressure, quality specifications and other relevant technical 
and economic factors including economic feasibility studies 
carried out by Contractor in respect of its declaration made 
under Article 13.6. 
 
13.5  
If Contractor fails to present an Appraisal Programme 
under Article 13.2(a) or Assessment Plan under Article 13.3 that is 
acceptable to Minister, Contractor shall upon the request of 
Minister at any time thereafter relinquish an area which shall 
contain as a minimum the geological structure or feature in which 
the Discovery was made. 
 
13.6  
With the submission of the evaluation reports pursuant to 
Article 13.2 and 13.4, Contractor shall submit a written 
declaration to Minister indicating, that based on the results of 
its Appraisal Programme, it has determined the Discovery is either: 
 
(a) a Commercial Discovery; 
 
(b) not a Commercial Discovery in which event Contractor 
shall be required to relinquish the areas pursuant to 
Article 5; or 
 
(c) a significant Discovery which may become a Commercial 
Discovery conditional on the outcome of further work, 
acceptable to Minister, that Contractor commits itself to 
carry out under a further Exploration or Appraisal Work 
Programme in specified areas within or outside the Appraisal 
Area. 
 
13.7  
In the event Contractor commits itself to an approved 
Work Programme under Article 13.6(c), it shall be entitled to 
retain the Appraisal Area pending the completion of the further 
Exploration or Appraisal Programme within the term of the Contract, 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
42
at which time the provisions of Article 13.6(a) or (b) shall be 
applied accordingly. 
 
13.8 (a) If Contractor declares pursuant to Article 13.6(a) that a 
Discovery is a Commercial Discovery, Contractor shall submit, 
within ninety (90) days of such declaration, the following:  
  
(i)  a proposed Development Plan; 
 
(ii) a proposed designation of the Production Area;      
 
(iii)a comprehensive environmental impact study covering 
the proposed Development and any related facilities or 
infrastructure inside or outside of the Contract Area, 
and  
 
(iv) evidence that Contractor is complying with the 
applicable legislation respecting approvals required by 
environmental authorities.  
 
The proposed Development Plan and Production Area shall be deemed 
approved as submitted if Minister does not respond within ninety 
(90) days of receipt.  
 
(b) In the event Minister and Contractor are unable to reach 
agreement on any objections raised or changes proposed by 
Minister, Contractor or Minister shall have the right to 
request determination of the disputed issues pursuant to 
Article 33, in which case the decision shall be binding on 
both Minister and Contractor.   
 
(c)  Upon approval being granted, Contractor shall proceed 
promptly and diligently and in accordance with the best 
international Petroleum industry practice to develop the 
Discovery, to install all necessary facilities, to commence 
Commercial Production and to produce the Field in a manner 
that will achieve maximum economic recovery of the reserves.  
Production shall continue without interruption unless Minister 
is satisfied that the interruption is justified for technical 
or other reasons. 
 
13.9  
Contractor's proposed Development Plan under Article 13.8 
shall detail Contractor's proposals for Development and operation 
of the Production Area and of any facilities and infrastructure up 
to the Measurement Point required outside of the Production Area.  
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
43
Such Development Plan shall set forth  
 
(i) production parameters,  
 
(ii) number and spacing of wells,  
 
(iii) the facilities and infrastructure (including proposed 
locations) to be installed for Production, storage, 
transportation and loading of Petroleum,  
 
(iv) an estimate of the overall cost of the Development, and 
estimates of the time required to complete each phase of the 
Development Plan,  
 
(v) a production forecast and an estimate of ongoing capital 
and operating expenses involved to achieve the production 
profile an analysis of marketing options evaluated including 
supply to existing or its potential projects in the internal 
market of Trinidad and Tobago and any other factor which 
would affect the economic or technical feasibility of the 
proposed Development,  
 
(vi) profitability estimates,  
 
(vii) safety measures to be adopted,  
 
(viii) a description of the organisation to be established in 
Trinidad and Tobago,  
 
(ix) measures to be implemented for the employment of 
nationals and the utilization of Local Goods and Local 
Services, 
 
(x) the proposed abandonment plan, and  
 
(xi) such other particulars as Minister may direct. 
 
13.10 
Any significant changes to an approved Development Plan 
or proposals related to extension of a Field or for enhanced 
recovery projects shall be discussed among the Parties and if 
agreed shall be submitted in writing to Minister for his prior 
approval.  Such changes shall be deemed approved as submitted if 
Minister does not respond within ninety (90) days of receipt.  
 
13.11  
All evaluation reports and plans submitted under this 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
44
Clause 13 shall include an analysis of marketing options including 
supply to existing or potential projects in the internal market of 
Trinidad and Tobago. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
45
 
ARTICLE 14 
 
EXPLORATION WORK PROGRAMME 
 
14.1 (a) Contractor shall present to Minister for approval with 
respect to each Calendar Year during the Exploration Period an 
annual Work Programme and budget for the Contract Area. The Work 
Programme and budget shall be deemed approved as submitted if 
Minister does not respond within sixty (60) days of receipt. The 
first such Work Programme and budget shall be submitted within 
thirty (30) days after the Effective Date and each subsequent Work 
Programme  and budget at least sixty (60) days before the beginning 
of the relevant Calendar Year.  
 
(b) Within thirty (30) days following the end of each Quarter 
of the Calendar Year, Contractor shall provide to Minister a status 
report specifying the work carried out during that Quarter, the 
approximate costs incurred during such period and any changes that 
Contractor plans to make to the Work Programme and budget as a 
result of operations to date in that Calendar Year.  The status 
report corresponding to the fourth Quarter of each Calendar Year 
shall also contain an annual summary of the quarterly reports for 
that Calendar year. 
 
14.2  
In respect of the retained Exploration area approved 
under Article 6 and the Appraisal Area under Article 13, the 
provisions of 14.1 (b) shall apply. 
 
14.3  
Subject to Contractor's obligations under Article 7 and 
Minister's prior approval, Contractor may amend the Work Programme 
and budget approved under Article 14.1. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
46
ARTICLE 15 
 
DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION WORK PROGRAMMES AND BUDGETS 
 
15.1  
Commencing in the Calendar Year in which Minister 
approves the first Development Plan for the Contract Area, 
Contractor shall prepare and submit to Minister for approval, in 
such form as Minister may direct, an annual Development and 
Production Work Programme and budget detailing by Calendar Quarter 
all aspects of the proposed Petroleum Operations to be carried out 
in relation to each Production Area and related facilities and 
infrastructure, the estimated cost thereof, duration and location 
of each operation, and, where applicable, the estimated monthly 
rate of production for each Production Area. Each proposed Work 
Programme and budget shall also include a forecast of yearly 
Development and Production activity and expenditure for the ensuing 
period of four (4) Calendar Years or the period up to the end of 
the term of the Contract, whichever is shorter. 
 
15.2  
The first Development and Production Work Programme and 
budget, covering the balance of the Calendar Year in which the 
first Development Plan is approved shall be submitted within thirty 
(30) days after the date of approval of such Development Plan.  
Thereafter, Contractor shall submit its proposed annual Work 
Programme and budget at least ninety (90) days before the beginning 
of the relevant Calendar Year. 
 
15.3  
Contractor's proposed Work Programme and budget shall be 
deemed approved as submitted if Minister does not respond in 
writing within sixty (60) days after receipt.  
 
15.4  
If Minister objects to any part of Contractor's proposal, 
he shall notify Contractor within the period specified in Article 
15.3.  The Minister's notice shall specify the modifications 
required by Minister. If Contractor considers that any revision 
required by Minister renders the Work Programme and budget 
unacceptable to Contractor, Contractor shall within twenty-five 
(25) days after receipt notify and substantiate to Minister its 
reasons for that decision. Forthwith Minister and Contractor shall 
meet with a view to resolving any differences. If they fail to 
resolve their differences by the beginning of the Calendar Year for 
which the Work Programme is to apply, Contractor shall incorporate 
the modifications requested by Minister into the proposed Work 
Programme and budget submitted under Article 15.2 to the extent 
such changes:  
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
47
 
(a) do not increase or decrease any line item of such 
proposed Work Programme and budget by more than ten percent 
(10%); and 
 
(b) do not materially alter the Development Plan as approved 
by Minister provided that the Development and Production Work 
Programme and budget is consistent with such Development Plan. 
 
The Minister may direct Contractor to modify the proposed rate of 
production from any Field from which more than fifty percent (50%) 
of the production on an energy equivalent basis is Crude Oil for 
any of the reasons contained in Sections 43(h), 43(i) and 43(s) of 
the Regulations, provided always that such changes in production 
levels shall not significantly alter the production levels agreed 
to between Minister and Contractor in the then current Development 
Plan.  Notwithstanding the above provisions Minister reserves the 
right to modify production levels for safety considerations.   
 
15.5  
Contractor shall deliver to Minister within twenty-one 
(21) days after each Calendar Quarter a status report on the 
operations conducted and costs incurred under the approved 
Development and Production Work Programme and budget during such 
Calendar Quarter. The status report shall forecast any significant 
changes to such approved Work Programme and budget that Contractor 
anticipates may be necessary during the balance of the Calendar 
Year.  The report corresponding to the last Quarter of each 
Calendar Year shall also include a year-end summary of operations 
and costs during such Calendar Year. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
48
ARTICLE 16 
 
NATURAL GAS 
 
16.1  
Within ninety (90) days of completion of an Assessment 
Plan agreed with Minister under Article 13.3, Contractor shall 
submit a comprehensive evaluation report on the Assessment Plan in 
accordance with Article 13. Upon submission of the evaluation 
report Contractor shall in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 13 notify Minister whether or not it wishes to retain the 
Natural Gas Discovery for a market development phase. 
 
16.2  
If Contractor requests a market development phase for 
such Discovery, Contractor and Minister shall within sixty (60) 
days after such election define by mutual agreement the portion of 
the Contract Area to be subject to such market development phase.  
Such portion shall not exceed the area encompassing the geological 
structure or feature in which such Discovery was made and a 
reasonable margin surrounding such structure or feature to be 
mutually agreed by Minister and Contractor.  Subject to Articles 
16.2 through 16.5 the duration of such market development phase 
shall not exceed five (5) years from the date of Contractor's 
notice under Article 16.1.  The market development phase shall end 
on the first to occur of: 
 
(a) the date following that on which the Natural Gas 
Discovery is declared a Commercial Discovery; 
 
(b) the date that Contractor voluntarily surrenders the 
market development area, or  
 
(c) five (5)years after the date of Contractor's notice under 
Article 16.1. 
 
Contractor shall be deemed to have relinquished all rights to the 
Natural Gas Discovery if it does not declare the Discovery a 
Commercial Discovery by the end of the market development phase or 
on earlier relinquishment of that portion of the Contract Area. 
 
16.3  
During the market development phase, Contractor shall pay 
to Minister at the end of each year of the market development phase 
or upon earlier termination an annual holding fee of two million 
(2,000,000) US dollars, reduced by duly verified amounts that 
Contractor has expended during such year under specific programmes 
approved 
by 
Minister 
on 
activities 
or 
projects 
directly 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
49
attributable to the market development area.  Expenditures for the 
following types of activities will be eligible as credits against 
the holding fee: 
 
(a) further geochemical, geophysical or geological surveys in 
the market development area; 
 
(b) the drilling and testing of any well in the market 
development area; 
 
(c) consulting, feasibility and marketing studies  
 
(d) market development outside Trinidad and Tobago for 
projects approved by Minister. 
 
Amounts expended in a particular year in excess of the holding fee 
may be carried forward as a credit against the following years' 
holding fees if agreed by Minister in his approval of the programme 
under which the expenditure was made. The holding fee shall be 
applied on a pro rata daily basis in the event Contractor 
relinquishes the market development area or declares such Natural 
Gas Discovery to be a Commercial Discovery prior to the end of such 
year.  
 
16.4  
Contractor shall notify Minister, forthwith upon entering 
the market development phase, of the quantity of the Natural Gas 
from such Discovery for sale and use in the internal market in 
Trinidad and Tobago. With such notice Contractor shall provide the 
results of the Assessment Plan carried out under Article 13.3. The 
internal market includes, without limitation, Natural Gas sold to 
refineries, electricity generating facilities, petrochemical 
manufacturers and other industrial, commercial and domestic 
customers in Trinidad and Tobago but expressly excludes Natural Gas 
to be liquefied for export or to be chemically converted to 
gasoline for export or to be used by Contractor in its Petroleum 
Operations hereunder. The Minister shall advise Contractor of his 
preferred marketing arrangements for the disposal of such Natural 
Gas, including the delivery of all or part of such Natural Gas to 
the internal market of Trinidad and Tobago.  
  
16.5 (a) Subject to provisions of Article 16.4, Contractor shall 
have primary responsibility for developing a market for all 
Available Natural Gas from the market development area and for 
negotiation of arrangements for   sale thereof on a joint 
dedicated basis at prices and terms common to both Minister 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
50
and Contractor. Contractor shall provide for the active 
participation of representatives of Minister in all such 
market development activities and related negotiations. The 
marketing arrangements for such Natural Gas sales contract 
shall be subject to approval by Minister. In applying for such 
approval Contractor shall demonstrate to Minister that the 
price of such Natural Gas at the Measurement Point represents 
the fair market value for such Natural Gas, taking into 
consideration a fair market cost for transporting the Natural 
Gas from the Measurement Point to the consumer.  The approval 
of any export project shall be at the discretion of Minister. 
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of (a) above, Minister 
shall 
have 
the 
right 
to 
develop 
separate 
marketing 
arrangements for the Government’s share of Natural Gas.  
 
16.6  
With its application for approval of any gas sales 
contract, pursuant to Article 16.5, Contractor may also apply to 
Minister for the granting of an additional period, to be added to 
the term of the Contract, to facilitate the sale of Natural Gas 
under such 
gas sales contract. The Minister shall, subject to 
the execution of such gas sales contract, extend the term of the 
Contract, with respect to the Natural Gas Production Area 
corresponding to such gas sales contract, for a period which will 
allow for the supply of Natural Gas under the terms of the gas 
sales contract. 
 
16.7  
Contractor shall apply to Minister for such licences as 
may be required for operations in Trinidad and Tobago beyond the 
Measurement Point. Costs incurred in this regard shall not be 
subject to cost recovery under this Contract. 
 
16.8  
Contractor 
shall 
use 
with 
priority 
in 
Petroleum 
Operations, Associated Natural Gas, including use for reinjection 
for pressure maintenance or recycling operations to effect maximum 
economic recovery of Crude Oil. 
 
16.9  
The Minister may at any time call upon Contractor to 
deliver to Minister at the Field separator without compensation any 
quantity of Natural Gas, produced in association with Crude Oil, 
not being required by Contractor for Petroleum Operations or for 
sale, which may be needed in the public interest, provided that 
delivery does not unreasonably interfere with Contractor's 
Petroleum Operations.  Government shall at its own cost provide and 
maintain any facilities beyond the delivery point required in 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
51
connection with gathering, transport, processing or utilization of 
such Associated Natural Gas. 
 
16.10 
Contractor shall minimize flaring of any remaining 
Associated Natural Gas by re-injecting such Natural Gas into 
suitable strata or underground storage in accordance with good 
Petroleum industry practice.  Contractor shall seek Minister's 
approval to flare any such natural gas which cannot be re-injected 
due to specific reservoir considerations or for other reasons that 
are in line with best practice employed in the petroleum industry. 
The decision to grant or refuse such approval shall be at 
Minister’s sole discretion. Any approval shall be subject to terms 
and conditions to be determined by Minister in light of the 
prevailing circumstances. Before flaring, Contractor shall take 
reasonable measures to ensure the extraction of natural gasoline 
and other liquids contained in the Associated Natural Gas if 
Minister and Contractor agreed that such extraction is economically 
justifiable. Notwithstanding anything in this Article to the 
contrary, Associated Natural Gas may be flared at any time if 
necessary for the conducting of well and production tests and 
during any emergency. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
52
ARTICLE 17 
 
BOOKS OF ACCOUNT, FINANCIAL REPORTING, AUDIT, AND 
 
COST VERIFICATION 
 
17.1  
Contractor shall maintain in Trinidad and Tobago in 
accordance with the Accounting Procedure in Annex "C" and accepted 
accounting practices generally used in the international petroleum 
industry, books of account and such other books and records as may 
be necessary to show the work performed under the Contract, the 
costs incurred and the quantity and value of all Petroleum produced 
and saved from the Contract Area and not used in Petroleum 
Operations. 
 
17.2  
Contractor shall prepare for each Calendar Year financial 
statements including a balance sheet and profit and loss statement 
reflecting its operations under the Contract. Accounting methods, 
rules and practices applied for determining revenue and expense 
shall be consistent with sound and usual international petroleum 
industry practice and the laws of Trinidad and Tobago.  Each 
financial statement shall be certified by an independent certified 
firm of chartered accountants acceptable to Minister and shall be 
submitted, along with the auditor's report to Minister and the 
minister responsible for finance within ninety (90) days after the 
end of the Calendar Year to which it pertains. 
 
17.3  
Contractor shall also provide Minister with the various 
other financial reports required by Annex "C". 
 
17.4  
The Minister shall have the right to inspect and audit 
Contractor's books, accounts and records relating to Petroleum 
Operations under the Contract for the purpose of verifying 
Contractor's compliance with the terms and conditions hereof.  Upon 
reasonable advance notice such books, accounts and records shall be 
available in Trinidad and Tobago at all reasonable times for 
inspection and audit by duly authorized representatives of the 
Government, including independent auditors that may be employed by 
it.  Fiscal audits shall be carried out within the period allowed 
under the Petroleum Taxes Act Chapter 75:04. 
  
17.5  
The Minister and/or the minister responsible for finance 
may require Contractor to engage the auditors of any of the 
entities comprising Contractor to examine at Contractor's cost and 
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the books 
and records of an Affiliate to verify the accuracy and compliance 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
53
with the terms of the Contract insofar as a charge from the 
Affiliate of Contractor (or of any entity comprising Contractor) is 
included directly or through Contractor as a reimbursable cost 
under the Contract.  Whenever audit of an Affiliate's books is 
requested, Minister shall specify in writing the item or items for 
which it requires verification from such independent audit.  A copy 
of the independent auditor's findings shall be delivered to 
Minister and the minister responsible for finance within thirty 
(30) days after completion of such audit. 
 
17.6  
Subject to the Accounting Procedure and the auditing 
provisions of the Contract, the following procedure shall be 
implemented with respect to each Calendar Month to verify and 
establish promptly Contractor's costs that qualify for cost 
recovery under Article 18.   
 
(a) Contractor shall submit a statement of expenditure in 
accordance with the procedure detailed in Annex "C" to 
Minister who shall verify: 
 
(i) that claimed costs qualify for cost recovery under 
the terms of the Contract and the Accounting Procedure; 
and 
 
(ii) that the claimed amount of a qualifying cost is 
correct based on documentation made available at 
Contractor's office in Trinidad and Tobago. 
 
(b) The statement of expenditure shall be deemed approved as 
submitted if Minister does not respond within ninety (90) days 
of receipt. If Minister takes written exception thereto, such 
written exception shall identify the particular cost or costs 
being contested and the reason for the query.   
 
(c) Contractor shall submit to Minister within thirty (30) 
days after receipt of Minister's exception notice such 
additional information in written form as Minister may require 
or Contractor considers appropriate to support the correctness 
and/or recoverability of the contested cost or costs.  If 
Contractor does not make a written submission within such time 
supporting the charge, the cost or costs shall be deemed 
disallowed for purposes of cost recovery. 
 
(d) If 
additional 
written 
information 
supporting 
the 
contested cost or costs is submitted by Contractor within the 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
54
prescribed period, Minister shall notify Contractor of his 
decision within thirty  (30) days after receipt of such 
information. 
 
(e) If Minister notifies Contractor that the exception 
remains, the charge shall be deemed disallowed for purposes of 
cost recovery under the Contract subject to the right of 
Contractor to request within thirty (30) days after the 
receipt of such notice that the final determination as to 
recoverability of the disputed cost or costs be made by an 
expert pursuant to Article 33.8. 
 
(f) Contractor shall promptly correct its books of account to 
reflect any changes resulting from the cost verification 
procedure. 
 
17.7  
Except as otherwise agreed in writing between Minister 
and Contractor, all transactions giving rise to revenues, costs or 
expenses which will be credited or charged to the books, accounts, 
records and reports prepared, maintained or submitted hereunder 
shall be conducted at arm's length or on such a basis as will 
assure that all such revenues, costs or expenses will not be higher 
or lower than would result from a transaction conducted at arm's 
length on a competitive basis with third parties. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
55
ARTICLE 18 
 
ALLOCATION OF PRODUCTION, RECOVERY OF COSTS 
 
AND EXPENSES, PRODUCTION SHARING AND 
 
RIGHT OF EXPORT 
 
18.1  
Contractor shall have the right to use free of charge 
Petroleum produced from the Contract Area to the extent reasonably 
required for Petroleum Operations under the Contract. 
 
18.2  
All Available Petroleum shall be measured at the 
applicable Measurement Points and allocated as set forth 
hereinafter.  Test or experimental production, to the extent not 
required for Petroleum Operations hereunder, shall be deemed Profit 
Petroleum and shall be allocated between Minister and Contractor in 
accordance with Article 18.14. 
                                                  
18.3  
Contractor 
and 
Minister 
shall 
review 
annually 
Contractor's production programme from each Production Area having 
due regard to ensuring compliance with Contractor's obligations 
under Article 10. 
 
18.4  
Contractor shall prepare and provide Minister not less 
than ninety (90) days prior to the beginning of each Calendar 
Quarter following commencement of Commercial Production a written 
forecast setting out the total quantity of Petroleum that it 
estimates can be produced and saved hereunder during each Month for 
the next four (4) Calendar Quarters in accordance with good 
Petroleum 
industry 
practice 
and 
the 
Production 
programme 
established in accordance with Article 18.3.  Contractor shall 
endeavour to produce each Calendar Month the forecast quantity.  
 
18.5 (a) All Available Crude Oil shall be run, if applicable, to 
storage tanks constructed, maintained and operated at the 
Measurement Point under this Contract where it shall be 
measured for purposes of this Contract and delivered to 
Minister and each entity comprising Contractor who shall each 
take in kind, assume risk of loss and separately dispose of 
their respective entitlement. 
   
(b) All Available Natural Gas shall be disposed of in 
accordance with the marketing arrangements developed pursuant 
to Articles 16.4 and 16.5. 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
56
18.6  
Prior to commencement of Commercial Production of Crude 
Oil from the Contract Area, Minister and Contractor shall agree on 
a procedure for taking volumes of Crude Oil corresponding to their 
respective entitlements on a regular basis and in a manner that is 
appropriate having regard to the respective destinations and uses 
of the Crude Oil. 
 
Cost Recovery 
 
18.7  
Subject to the Accounting Procedure and the auditing 
provisions of the Contract, Contractor shall recover costs and duly 
verified in accordance with Article 17 of the Contract in respect 
of the Petroleum Operations hereunder to the extent of and out of 
the following maximum limits per Calendar Month of all Available 
Crude Oil and/or all Available Natural Gas from the Contract Area, 
(hereinafter referred to as "Cost Recovery Crude Oil" and/or "Cost 
Recovery Natural Gas" and collectively as “Cost Recovery 
Petroleum”): 
 
(a) ------ percent (--%) of all Available Crude Oil and -----
- percent (--%) of all Available Natural Gas from the Contract 
Area when cumulative production of Petroleum in the Contract 
Area after the Effective Date is equal to or less than twenty-
five million (25,000,000)Barrels of Crude Oil; 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
57
(b) ------ percent (--%) of all Available Crude Oil and -----
- percent (--%) of all Available Natural Gas from the Contract 
Area when cumulative production of Petroleum in the Contract 
Area after the Effective Date exceeds twenty-five million 
(25,000,000)Barrels but is equal to or less than fifty million 
(50,000,000)Barrels of Crude Oil; and 
 
(c) ------ percent (--%) of all Available Crude Oil and -----
- percent (--%) of all Available Natural Gas from the Contract 
Area when cumulative production of Petroleum in the Contract 
Area after the Effective Date exceeds fifty million 
(50,000,000)Barrels of Crude Oil. 
 
In computing the total cumulative production referred to above, 
Natural Gas production shall be added to Crude Oil production after 
converting to Barrels of Crude Oil on an Energy Equivalent Basis.   
 
18.8  
Subject to Article 18.9 such costs and expenses shall be 
allocated to the applicable recoverable Crude Oil cost account or 
recoverable Natural Gas cost account and shall be recovered from 
the relevant account on a first in, first out basis subject to the 
following: 
 
(a) costs incurred in respect of Exploration Operations may 
be recovered on an expensed basis;  
 
(b) capital costs incurred in respect of Development and 
Production Operations may be recovered over four(4) years 
commencing in the year in which such expenditure is incurred 
with 40% recoverable in the first year and 20% recoverable in 
each of the next three(3) years; 
 
(c) annual operating costs, may be recovered in the year in 
which they are incurred; 
 
(d) annual administrative overhead costs, up to the limits 
established in Article 2(l) of the Accounting Procedure may be 
recovered in the year incurred; and 
 
(e) any Exploration Well or Appraisal well which is 
subsequently used for Development Operations shall be 
classified as a Development well and all costs incurred shall 
be deemed recoverable as prescribed under Article 18.8 (b).  
An appropriate adjustment shall be made to the cost recovery 
account in the Calendar Month immediately following this 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
58
reclassification. 
 
18.9  
To the extent that in a Calendar Year the recoverable 
costs or expenses related to the Contract Area exceed the amount 
allowable for Cost Recovery Crude Oil or Cost Recovery Natural Gas 
from the Contract Area for such Calendar Year, then the excess 
shall be carried forward for recovery in the next succeeding 
Calendar Years until fully recovered, but in no case after 
termination of this Contract. 
 
18.10 
To the extent that the amount of Cost Recovery Crude Oil 
or Cost Recovery Natural Gas received by Contractor from the 
Contract Area during a Calendar Month is greater or less than the 
amount Contractor was entitled to receive for that Month, an 
appropriate 
adjustment 
shall 
be 
made 
in 
accordance 
with 
internationally accepted accounting principles. 
 
Profit Petroleum 
 
18.11 
The remaining Available Petroleum including any portion 
of Cost Recovery Crude Oil or Cost Recovery Natural Gas not 
required to cover costs hereinafter referred to as "Profit Crude 
Oil" and/or "Profit Natural Gas" and collectively as "Profit 
Petroleum") shall be allocated between the Government and 
Contractor.   
 
18.12 
Contractor's share of Profit Petroleum shall be the 
remaining portion after deducting the Government’s share in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 18.14. 
 
18.13 
Subject only to Article 16.5 and 26, Contractor may 
freely export any Available Petroleum received by it under Article 
18. 
 
18.14   
The Government’s share of Profit Crude Oil and/or Profit 
Natural Gas for a Calendar Month from the Contract Area shall be 
determined separately for Crude Oil and Natural Gas by reference to 
the applicable price class in the relevant table(s) detailed 
hereunder.  The relevant price class shall be determined using the 
value of Profit Crude Oil and Profit Natural Gas calculated in 
accordance with Article 20 herein. The average daily production 
rates referred to in the production tiers set out in the tables 
hereunder shall be calculated for each Calendar Month by dividing 
the respective volumes of Available Crude Oil and Available Natural 
Gas produced from the Contract Area during that Month by the number 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
59
of days in such Month. 
  
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
60
Government’s share of Profit Crude Oil (percent %) 
 
Production Tier 
 
   
 
Crude Oil Price Class 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 A 
   
  B    C      D     
 
Production up to 10,000 B/D 
 
Production in   
excess of 10,000  
B/D and up to 25,000 B/D  
 
Production in  
 
excess of 25,000  
B/D and up to 50,000 B/D  
 
Production in   
excess of 50,000 
B/D and up to75,000 B/D 
 
Production in  
excess of 75,000 B/D 
 
Where: 
 
Price Class A refers to Minister’s share for a Crude Oil 
price less than or equal to US $20.00 per Barrel. 
 
Price Class B refers to Minister’s share for a Crude Oil price 
greater than US $20.00 per barrel but less than or equal to US 
$30.00 per Barrel. 
 
Price Class C refers to Minister’s share for a Crude Oil 
price greater than US $30.00 per barrel but less than or 
equal to US $40.00 per Barrel. 
 
Price Class D, Crude Oil Price greater than US$40.00 per 
Barrel, the Government’s share of Profit Crude Oil is equal 
to: 
BR + 80% [P –US$ 40) /P] (1-BR)  
where:  
BR refers to the Base Rates set out in Price 
Class D, and P is the Crude Oil price 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
61
(b)  
Government’s share of Profit Natural Gas 
 
Production Tier 
 
 
Natural Gas Price Class 
 
A 
B 
C 
D 
 
 
Production up to 60 MMcfd 
 
Production in  
excess of 60 MMcfd  
 
and up to 150 MMcfd 
 
Production in excess 
of 150 MMcfd and up  
 
 
 
to 300 MMcfd 
 
Production in excess 
of 300 MMcfd and up  
 
 
 
to 450 MMcfd 
 
Production in excess 
 
of 450 MMcfd 
 
Where: 
 
Price Class A refers to Minister’s share for a Natural Gas 
price less 
than or equal to US $1.50 per Mcf. 
 
Price Class B refers to Minister’s share for a Natural Gas 
price greater than US $1.50 per Mcf but less than or equal 
to US$2.75 per Mcf. 
 
Price Class C refers to Minister’ share for a Natural Gas 
price greater than US $2.75 per Mcf but less than or equal 
to US $4.00 per Mcf. 
 
Price Class D, Natural Gas price greater than US$4.00 per 
Mcf, the Government’s share of Profit Natural Gas is equal 
to:  
 
BR + 80% [(P –US$4.00) / P] (1-BR)  
 
where:  
BR refers to the Base Rates set out in Price 
Class D, and P is the Natural Gas price. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
62
ARTICLE 19 
 
MEASUREMENT OF PETROLEUM 
 
19.1  
All Petroleum produced, saved and not used in Petroleum 
Operations shall be measured at the Measurement Points approved in 
the Development Plan. 
 
19.2  
The Measurement Points shall be at the end of the 
facilities for which the cost is included as a recoverable cost of 
Petroleum Operations under the Contract. 
 
19.3  
The production shall be measured in accordance with the 
highest standards generally accepted in the international Petroleum 
industry.  All measurement equipment shall be installed, maintained 
and operated by Contractor.  The Minister shall have the right to 
inspect the measuring equipment installed by Contractor and all 
charts and other measurement or test data at all reasonable times. 
 The accuracy of Contractor's measuring equipment shall be verified 
by tests at regular intervals and upon the request of Minister, 
using the best means and methods generally accepted in the 
international Petroleum industry. 
 
19.4  
Upon discovery of a meter malfunction, Contractor shall 
immediately have the meter repaired, adjusted and corrected and 
following such repairs, adjustment or correction shall have it 
tested or calibrated to establish its accuracy.  Upon the discovery 
of a metering error, Contractor shall have the meter tested 
immediately and shall take the necessary steps to correct any error 
that may be discovered. 
 
19.5  
In the event a measuring error is discovered, Contractor 
shall use its best efforts to determine the correct production 
figures for the period during which there was a measuring error and 
the corrected figures shall be used.  In determining the 
correction, Contractor shall use, where required, the information 
from other measurements made inside or outside the Production Area. 
Contractor shall submit for Minister's approval a report detailing 
the source and nature of the measuring error and the corrections to 
be applied.  If it proves impossible to determine when the 
measuring error first occurred, the commencement of the error shall 
be deemed to be that point in time halfway between the date of the 
last previous test and the date on which the existence of the 
measuring error was first discovered. 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
63
19.6  
All measurements for all purposes in this Contract shall 
be adjusted to standard conditions of pressure and temperature 
(sixty (60) degrees Fahrenheit and 14.7 p.s.i.a.). 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
64
ARTICLE 20 
 
VALUATION 
 
20.1  
The value of Crude Oil from each Production Area shall be 
the international fair market value of such Crude Oil at the 
Measurement Point. 
 
20.2  
The international fair market value of Crude Oil, shall 
be the price in United States dollars at which an independent third 
party buyer would be prepared to buy at the particular time such 
Crude Oil at the Measurement Point, on an arms length basis, taking 
into account the quality, volume, cost of transportation, terms of 
payment, and any other relevant conditions, including the then 
prevailing market conditions for crude oil. 
 
20.3  
Where different grades of Crude Oil are being produced 
from the Contract Area, the value shall be determined and applied 
for each grade of such Crude Oil. However, in the event that 
different grades of such Crude Oil are blended together for sale 
then the value of such a blend shall prevail. 
 
20.4 (a) Contractor shall present to Minister, within ten (10) 
days after the end of each Calendar Month during which Crude 
Oil is produced and measured from a Production Area, its 
proposal as to the value of the particular Crude Oil for the 
preceding Month.  Such proposal shall be accompanied by 
information supporting Contractor's proposal, including 
evidence of actual arms length, FOB sales prices for the 
particular Crude Oil and/or comparable crude oils delivered 
during such preceding Calendar Month by Contractor or other 
producers from Trinidad and Tobago or other producing 
countries. 
 
(b) The proposals shall be deemed approved, as submitted, 
under Article 20.4 (a) if Minister fails to respond within 
thirty (30) days of receipt.  
 
(c) If Minister takes written exception to Contractor's 
proposal, Minister shall include with such notice a counter-
proposal for the value of the particular Crude Oil. 
 
(d) If Contractor accepts Minister's counter-proposal or does 
not take written exception thereto within ten (10) days after 
receipt, Minister's counter-proposal shall be the value for 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
65
the Calendar Month for which the price is being determined. 
 
(e) If Contractor takes written exception to Minister's 
counter-proposal within the prescribed period, authorized 
representatives of Minister and Contractor shall meet to 
establish the value for the Calendar Month for which the 
determination is being made, in accordance with the principles 
outlined under Article 20.5. 
 
20.5  
For Crude Oil sales that are non-arms length, the 
following principles shall apply in determining the value of Crude 
Oil:- 
 
(a) a basket of widely traded reference crudes similar in 
quality to the crude to be valued shall be selected and the 
international market prices of the crudes selected shall be 
used as the base value for the crude to be valued; 
 
(b) an appropriate price-setting market where substantial 
quantities of the reference crudes are traded at arms length 
and on an ongoing basis shall be chosen; 
 
(c) the crude oils to be included in the basket shall be 
proposed by Contractor as part of the Development Plan under 
Article 13.8 to be approved by Minister; 
 
(d) in the event that one or more of the crude oils 
comprising an agreed basket no longer meets the requirements 
of Article 20.5(a), a replacement crude oil shall be 
determined by agreement between Minister and Contractor; 
 
(e) transportation differential shall be taken into account, 
that is to say, the difference between the cost of 
transporting to the price-setting market, the reference crudes 
and the Crude to be valued;  
 
(f) interest charges on the value of the inventory in transit 
may be considered in determining transportation costs; 
 
(g) other relevant considerations. 
 
 
20.6 
The fair market value of Natural Gas determined at the 
Measurement Point shall be the price in United States dollars at 
which an independent third party would be prepared to buy at the 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
66
particular time such Natural Gas, on an arms length basis, taking 
into account the quality, volume, cost of transportation, terms of 
payment, and any other relevant conditions, including the then 
prevailing market conditions for Natural Gas at the final sales 
destination and shall be based on the higher of actual realized 
prices or the prices calculated under the marketing arrangements 
for Natural Gas approved by Minister under Article 16.5 for 
deliveries of Natural Gas during the Calendar Month.  
 
20.7 
For Natural Gas sales transactions that are non-arms 
length, the following considerations shall apply in determining the 
value of Natural Gas:- 
 
(a) the market destination of the Natural Gas; 
 
(b) the price of the Natural Gas at the final destination; 
 
(c) regasification costs; 
 
(d) shipping costs; 
 
(e) liquefaction costs; 
 
(f) pipeline transport costs; 
 
(g) publicly available values outside Trinidad and Tobago; and  
 
(h) other relevant considerations.  
 
20.8  
Subject to the provisions of this Article 20, in the 
event of any dispute between Minister and Contractor concerning the 
pricing of Crude Oil or Natural Gas, such dispute may be referred 
by either Party for final determination in accordance with Article 
33. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
67
ARTICLE  21 
 
FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS 
 
21.1   
Contractor's financial obligations towards Minister, 
which it shall satisfy at its own expense, shall consist of the 
following payments: 
 
(a) (i) Minimum payment in respect of each hectare of the 
Contract Area retained by Contractor from time to time 
throughout the period of this Contract at the following 
rates:- 
                                                
        
 
 
 
US$ per hectare per annum 
 
During the 1st Contract Year  
5.50 
During the 2nd Contract Year  
6.00 
During the 3rd Contract Year   
6.50 
During the 4th Contract Year    
7.00 
During the 5th Contract Year   
7.50 
During the 6th Contract Year   
8.00 
 
Thereafter minimum payment shall increase annually at a rate of six 
percent(6%) for the unexpired term of the Contract. Minimum payment 
shall be payable quarterly in advance within the first ten (10) 
days of January, April, July and October. No refund shall become 
due if before the end of a quarterly period a part of the area has 
been surrendered. 
 
 
(ii) Annual surface rental for that part of the Contract 
Area used for Petroleum Operations payable in accordance 
with Regulation 60 at the following rates: 
 
U.S. $ per hectare 
per annum 
 
During the 1st Contract Year 
 
5.00 
During the 2nd Contract Year 
 
5.25 
During the 3rd Contract Year 
     5.50 
      
 
During the 4th Contract Year 
 
5.75 
      
 
During the 5th Contract Year 
 
6.00 
During the 6th Contract Year   
6.25 
 
Thereafter, annual surface rental shall increase annually at a rate 
of six percent (6%) for the unexpired term of the Contract. Annual 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
68
surface rental shall be payable within thirty (30) days after the 
Effective Date of this Contract and thereafter on each anniversary 
date of the Effective Date of the Contract on the number of 
hectares comprising the State Lands in the Contract Area as of the 
date of payment. No refund shall become due if before the next 
anniversary date any part of the Contract Area has been 
surrendered. 
 
(b) Annual charges payable within ten (10) days of the 
Effective Date of this Contract and thereafter within the 
first ten (10) days of each Contract Year in respect of the 
following items: 
 
 (i)  
An administrative charge of two hundred 
thousand (200,000) US dollars during the first year of 
this Contract increasing annually at a rate of six 
percent(6%) for the unexpired term of the Contract.  No 
refund shall be due if Contractor ceases operation prior 
to the end of a Contract Year.  
 
 (ii) A training contribution of --------(---------) US 
dollars to the University of Trinidad and Tobago and the 
University of the West Indies or such other institution as 
the Minister may direct for the financing of hands on 
training of nationals in appropriate fields of study 
associated with the energy sector for the first year of 
the Contract and increasing annually at a rate of six 
percent(6%) for the unexpired term of the Contract. In the 
event of a Commercial Discovery the amount shall increase 
to ----------- (---,---) US dollars in the year following 
Commercial Discovery increasing by six percent(6%) per 
annum for the remaining term of the Contract. In the event 
that these funds are not utilized as prescribed above 
during any Contract Year, Contractor shall pay to Minister 
an amount equivalent to funds not expended for the same 
purpose. 
 
(iii) Contractor and his Subcontractors shall collaborate 
with these tertiary institutions in the development, 
scheduling and management of the programmes which shall 
include but not be limited to petroleum exploration, 
exploitation, law, project management, marketing, finance, 
commercial analysis and procurement. 
 
(iv) An Environmental Bonus of ------------(--,---)in 
the currency of the United States of America payable 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
69
within ten (10) days of the Effective Date of this 
Contract.  This payment is to implement an agreed 
programme to effect the remediation in accordance of 
applicable law in identified areas of environmental 
degradation in the Contract Area.  
  
21.2  
Contractor shall be subject to payment of assessment or 
contributions, assessed on employees by generally applicable law on 
labour costs. Contractor shall also guarantee the payment of any 
Trinidad and Tobago income tax due from its foreign employees. 
 
21.3 
Contractor and its Subcontractors and their respective 
personnel shall be obliged to pay such transfer taxes and stamp 
duties as may be in effect from time to time at the rates which are 
generally applicable to all persons or entities in Trinidad and 
Tobago. 
 
21.4  
Contractor shall be subject to and must observe the laws 
in force from time to time in Trinidad and Tobago and nothing 
herein contained shall be construed as exempting Contractor from 
complying with the laws imposing taxes, duties, levies, fees, 
charges or similar impositions or contributions which Contractor 
would be liable to pay or is called upon to pay under such laws by 
virtue of its conduct of Petroleum Operations hereunder.  
 
21.5       The Government’s share of petroleum shall be in lieu of 
Supplemental Petroleum Tax, Petroleum Impost, Royalty, and 
Petroleum Production Levy being obligations which Contractor 
ordinarily would have been liable to pay in accordance with the 
laws of Trinidad and Tobago.  The Government’s share shall not be a 
deduction for tax purposes. 
 
21.6  
Each entity comprising Contractor shall pay its liability 
for Petroleum Profits Tax, Unemployment Levy, Green Fund Levy and 
Withholding Tax arising out of income or profits derived from the 
conduct of Petroleum Operations.  Contractor shall also furnish to 
the relevant tax authority and Minister a statement showing the 
manner in which the Government’s share of Profit Petroleum is 
computed and any other information as may be required.   
 
21.7  
For the purpose of applying Article 21.6, the gross 
income of each entity comprising Contractor in respect of any year 
of income shall be calculated as the total of its share of Profit 
Petroleum plus Cost Recovery Petroleum.  
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
70
21.8  
Subject only to Articles 21.1, 21.2, 21.3 21.4, 21.5, 
21.6 and 23, Minister shall save Contractor harmless from Royalty, 
Petroleum Impost, the Supplemental Petroleum Tax and the Petroleum 
Production Levy.  
 
21.9      Profits and/or losses resulting from any Petroleum 
Operations carried out by Contractor or any entity comprising 
Contractor under any of its Taxable Production Sharing Contracts 
for Onshore and Shallow Marine Blocks in Trinidad and Tobago may be 
consolidated for tax purposes. 
 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
71
ARTICLE 22 
 
PAYMENT AND CURRENCY 
 
22.1  
All payments which the Contract requires Contractor to 
make to Minister or the Government shall be made in United States 
dollars at a bank designated by recipient. Contractor may make 
payment in other currencies, if acceptable to recipient. 
 
22.2  
Conversion of all payments made by Contractor in Trinidad 
and Tobago into United States dollars or any other currency 
acceptable to the recipient shall be effected at the generally 
prevailing rate of exchange at the time of payment. 
 
22.3  
All payments due to Contractor from Minister shall be 
made in United States dollars or any other currency acceptable to 
Contractor, at a bank to be designated by Contractor. 
 
22.4  
Contractor shall have the right to receive, retain abroad 
and use without restriction the entirety of proceeds received from 
its sales of its share of Petroleum from the Contract Area subject 
to Contractor satisfying completely its then accrued financial 
obligations under this Contract. 
 
22.5  
Contractor shall during the term of the Contract have the 
right without the imposition of any control, except as otherwise 
imposed by the terms of the Contract, to make any payments and to 
maintain and operate bank accounts outside Trinidad and Tobago in 
whatsoever currency.  Contractor may also operate and maintain 
United States dollar or other foreign currency bank accounts within 
Trinidad and Tobago subject to applicable law. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
72
ARTICLE 23 
 
MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT IMPORT DUTIES 
 
23.1  
Contractor shall provide all equipment, machinery, tools, 
spare parts and any other goods of a similar nature ("Materials") 
required for Petroleum Operations under this Contract. 
 
23.2  
Such Materials shall be provided by Contractor in 
accordance with programmes and budgets under Articles 14 and 15 and 
shall be acquired pursuant to procurement procedures specified by 
Contractor under Article 1.7 of the Accounting Procedure. 
 
23.3  
Contractor shall give preference to the use of locally 
manufactured or locally available Materials when such are 
comparable with the competing imported Material in quality and 
availability and the price thereof does not exceed the c.i.f. price 
(including import duties where applicable) of the imported Material 
delivered to the Contract Area. In this regard Contractor shall 
maintain records and accounts and provide reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Article 13 of the Accounting Procedure. 
 
23.4  
Subject to Article 23.3, Contractor shall have the right 
to import any Materials required for Petroleum Operations.  In this 
regard 
Contractor 
shall 
comply 
with 
generally 
applicable 
importation formalities and pay import and excise duties to the 
extent not exempt therefrom by generally applicable law. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
73
ARTICLE 24 
 
OWNERSHIP OF ASSETS 
 
24.1  
Subject to Article 24.3, ownership of any asset, whether 
fixed or moveable, acquired and owned by Contractor in connection 
with Petroleum Operations hereunder shall pass to Minister without 
consideration when the part of the Contract Area in which the asset 
is located is relinquished or at the end of the term of this 
Contract, whichever first occurs, except in cases where Minister 
notifies Contractor that he does not accept the particular asset.  
Where Minister elects not to take a particular asset Contractor 
shall carry out the approved abandonment programme under Article 37 
and shall be free to dispose of the asset in accordance with 
applicable law. 
 
24.2  
Where Production from a Production Area is possible 
beyond the term of the Contract, Contractor shall hand over to 
Minister without consideration such Production Area and all 
facilities required for carrying out existing operations, in good 
working order, normal wear and tear excepted.  Upon the transfer of 
said Production Area and related facilities, Minister shall assume 
all responsibility for the facilities and their abandonment and 
hold Contractor harmless against any liability with respect thereto 
accruing after the date of such transfer to Minister.  
 
24.3  
Subject to Article 24.2, whenever Contractor relinquishes 
any part of the Contract Area, all moveable property located within 
the part of the Contract Area so relinquished, may be removed to 
any part of the Contract Area that has been retained. 
 
24.4  
The provisions of Article 24.1 and 24.2 shall not apply 
to materials, facilities, or other property that are rented or 
leased to Contractor or which belong to employees of Contractor, 
provided that the ownership of any such item by other than 
Contractor is clearly documented with Minister at the time of entry 
into Trinidad and Tobago or of local acquisition. 
 
24.5  
In the event Contractor desires to move property located 
on the Contract Area but no longer used in Petroleum Operations to 
another location within Trinidad and Tobago for further use prior 
approval of Minister shall be required.  Upon receipt of such 
approval Contractor shall pay to Minister either: 
 
(a) an amount equal to a transfer price mutually agreed upon 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
74
by the Parties, or  
 
(b) if no price is agreed and Contractor still desires to 
move the property as provided herein, an amount equal to the 
percentage of the cost of such property that has been cost-
recovered under this Contract as of the date such property is 
moved multiplied by the depreciated value of the property 
determined in accordance with applicable law. 
 
24.6  
In the event Contractor desires to use property located 
on this Contract Area for Petroleum Operations not related to this 
Contract Area the prior approval of Minister shall be required. The 
terms and conditions under which the facilities shall be used for 
such purpose shall be subject to the approval of Minister.  
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
75
ARTICLE 25 
 
SUBCONTRACTORS, PERSONNEL AND TRAINING 
 
 
25.1  
Contractor has the right to use qualified Subcontractors 
to provide specialized equipment or services. 
 
25.2  
Contractor shall provide Local Enterprises opportunities, 
in competition with foreign entities, to provide any services or 
equipment required in connection with Petroleum Operations.  The 
procurement procedures submitted pursuant to Article 1.7 of the 
Accounting Procedure shall contain appropriate measures in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 39 to ensure Contractor’s 
compliance in this regard. Contractor shall give preference to 
Local Enterprises as Subcontractors where bids placed by such are 
competitive with foreign bids in skills, resources, availability 
and price and meet the technical and financial requirements of 
Contractor.  
 
25.3  
Prior to the commencement of any contract, Contractor 
shall provide Minister with all necessary information covering each 
Subcontractor including, upon Minister's request, an executed copy 
of any contract and related agreements and changes thereto. 
 
25.4  
Contractor and its Subcontractors undertake to employ 
with priority nationals of Trinidad and Tobago in all aspects of 
Petroleum Operations to the extent that these nationals with the 
requisite qualifications and experience can be found. 
 
25.5  
Contractor and its Subcontractors shall minimize the 
employment of foreign personnel but may subject to the provisions 
of this Contract and applicable law employ foreign nationals: 
 
(a) to the extent that qualified nationals cannot be found to 
fill the positions required; 
 
(b) to fill a limited number of specialist technical or 
managerial positions, provided that there are clearly 
identified counterpart national understudies together with 
comprehensive programmes for their development in accordance 
with the provisions of Article 25.6; and 
 
(c) to provide short-term specialist expertise. 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
76
25.6  
Contractor shall undertake the development and training 
of its national personnel (including training for the specific 
purpose of taking over positions held by expatriate personnel) for 
all positions including administrative, technical and executive 
management positions.  Contractor shall, together with its annual 
Work Programme and Budget, prepare and submit annually to Minister 
for approval programmes for such development and training. 
Contractor shall include a status report on these programmes with 
its submission of the quarterly status report required under 
Articles 14.1(b) and 15.5. 
 
25.7  
Contractor shall at its own expense as part of Petroleum 
Operations provide a reasonable number of personnel of the Ministry 
with on-the-job training and where appropriate and practicable, 
with overseas training, based on a mutually agreed programme.  On-
the-job training shall involve the inclusion of representatives of 
Minister on project teams responsible for various aspects of 
Petroleum Operations under this Contract. 
 
25.8  
Contractor shall also submit to Minister together with 
its submission of the annual Work Programme and budget, the details 
of all the payments, benefits and privileges accorded for each 
classified category of Contractor's personnel (both expatriate and 
local). 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
77
ARTICLE 26 
 
STATE'S RIGHT OF REQUISITION 
 
26.1  
In case of war or imminent expectation of war or grave 
national emergency (as provided for in Section 36 of the Act), the 
President may requisition all or a part of the Petroleum production 
from the Contract Area and require Contractor to increase such 
production to the extent required.  In such event, the price to be 
paid by the President for the Petroleum shall be the value 
determined in accordance with Article 20 of the Contract and 
payment shall be made within thirty (30) days after delivery in US 
dollars at a bank outside of Trinidad and Tobago designated by 
Contractor. 
 
26.2  
In the event of any requisition as provided above, the 
President shall indemnify Contractor in full for the period, during 
which the requisition is maintained, including all reasonable 
damages, if any, which result from such requisition.  
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
78
ARTICLE 27 
 
UNITIZATION 
 
27.1  
If a Petroleum Discovery in the Contract Area extends 
beyond the boundaries of the Contract Area, Minister may require 
that the Development of the Discovery and the Production of 
Petroleum therefrom be carried out in collaboration with the entity 
or entities that have the right to conduct Petroleum Operations in 
the areas into which the Discovery extends. 
 
27.2  
In such case, a collective proposal for common 
Development and Production of the deposit of Petroleum shall be 
proposed by Contractor and such other entity or entities for 
approval by Minister.  If such proposal is not approved, Minister 
may prepare or cause to be prepared, for the account of Contractor 
and the other entities involved a reasonable plan for common 
Development and Production. 
 
27.3  
Where one or more of the entities object to the programme 
prepared by Minister under Article 27.2 it or they may within 
twenty-eight (28) days of receipt of the programme, submit the 
matter for arbitration in accordance with the procedure set out in 
this Contract. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
79
ARTICLE 28 
 
CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
28.1  
All technical data and other information related to 
Petroleum Operations in the Contract Area shall be the property of 
the State.  Except as provided in Articles 28.3, 28.4 and 28.5 all 
data shall be maintained by the Parties as strictly confidential 
and shall not be divulged by either Party during the term of the 
Contract without prior written consent of the other Party, except 
to the extent required to comply with applicable law, unless such 
data become part of the public domain. 
 
28.2  
Such confidentiality undertaking shall continue to apply 
to Contractor for a period of five (5) years after the termination 
of the Contract.  Contractor shall not trade, sell or publish data 
pertaining to the Contract Area at any time without the prior 
written consent of Minister. 
 
28.3  
A Party may disclose such information to its employees, 
Affiliates, consultants, banks, financial institutions, auditors, 
Subcontractors and prospective assignees to the extent required for 
the efficient conduct of Petroleum Operations.  Prior to making any 
such disclosures to its consultants, banks, financial institutions, 
auditors, Subcontractors or prospective assignees, such Party shall 
obtain from such individuals or entities a written confidentiality 
undertaking to keep the data and information strictly confidential. 
 Contractor may also, upon written notice to Minister, make such 
disclosures as may be required by applicable law or the rules of a 
recognized stock exchange and such notice shall include copies of 
the information to be disclosed. 
 
28.4 (a) All data furnished under this Contract shall, subject to 
the exemptions in Article 28.4 (b) below, be treated as 
strictly confidential for the term of this Contract or any 
extension or renewal hereof, except that Minister and 
Contractor shall have the right to use such data for the 
purpose of any arbitration or litigation between Minister and 
Contractor. 
 
 (b)(i) 
Data related to Petroleum Operations in areas which 
have been relinquished by Contractor may be released by 
Minister immediately on relinquishment. 
 
(ii) Data related to the Petroleum Operations in areas 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
80
not relinquished in accordance with the terms of this 
Contract may be released by Minister at the end of the 
sixth(6th) year of the Contract or one (1) year after 
acquisition whichever period is later. 
 
28.5  
The Minister shall be entitled at any time to prepare and 
publish reports or studies using information derived from any 
information or data related to the Contract Area. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
81
ARTICLE 29 
 
PIPELINES 
 
29.1  
Sections 26 and 27 of the Petroleum Regulations shall 
apply to any pipeline outside of the Contract Area but which is 
included as a part of Petroleum Operations hereunder. 
 
29.2  
In the event of usage of such pipeline by third parties, 
the tariff collected by Contractor shall be credited to the cost 
recovery account. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
82
 
ARTICLE 30 
 
INSURANCE 
 
30.1  
Contractor shall provide all insurance required by 
applicable law and such other insurance as may be agreed with 
Minister from time to time in conformity with generally accepted 
practices in the international Petroleum industry.  Contractor 
shall insure with a reputable insurance company that shall repay 
claims in convertible currency. 
 
30.2  
All such policies of insurance with respect to the 
operations of Contractor shall name Minister as an additional named 
insured or "loss payee" and shall contain an express waiver of 
subrogation against the Government and Minister. 
 
30.3  
Contractor shall upon request provide Minister with 
copies of all policies of insurance. 
 
30.4  
Contractor shall actively pursue any claims against 
insurers. Any amount received from insurance settlements shall be 
applied and accounted for in accordance with the Accounting 
Procedure. 
 
30.5  
Contractor shall not self-insure or insure through 
Affiliates without the specific prior approval of Minister. 
 
30.6  
Contractor may utilize its normal worldwide insurance 
programmes and coverage to satisfy these insurance requirements 
with the prior approval of Minister. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
83
ARTICLE 31 
 
ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER 
 
31.1  
Any entity or entities comprising Contractor may with 
prior approval of Minister assign all or an undivided percentage 
interest in its rights and obligations under the Contract to any of 
its Affiliates provided that: 
 
(a) such entity demonstrates to Minister's satisfaction that 
the Affiliate to which the assignment is proposed to be made 
is as qualified as the assignor with respect to its technical 
and financial competence; 
 
(b) such entity at the time of such notice provides Minister 
with an undertaking from the ultimate parent company of the 
Affiliate to which the assignment is proposed to be made 
required by Article 8.5;  
 
(i) the instrument of assignment states precisely that the 
assignee is bound by all covenants contained in the Contract; 
and 
 
(j) the assignor submits a valuation and all material terms 
of the assignment.   
 
31.2  
Subject to the prior written approval of Minister any of 
the entities comprising Contractor may assign all or an undivided 
percentage interest in its rights and obligations under the 
Contract to a third party that is not an Affiliate of Contractor.  
For consideration to be given to any such request: 
 
(a) all accrued obligations of the assignor derived from the 
Contract must have been duly fulfilled as of the date such 
request is made, or assignor and assignee must jointly and 
severally guarantee fulfillment of any unfulfilled accrued 
obligations of assignor; 
 
(b) the 
proposed assignee or 
assignees 
must produce 
reasonable evidence to Minister of its or their financial and 
technical competence;   
 
(c) the instruments of assignment shall be submitted to 
Minister for scrutiny and approval and shall include 
provisions stating precisely that the assignee is bound by all 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
84
covenants contained in the Contract; and 
 
(d) the assignor submits a valuation and all material terms 
of the assignment.   
 
31.3  
No assignment shall in any way absolve the assignor from 
the obligations undertaken by it under the Contract except to the 
extent such obligations are in fact performed by the assignee. 
 
31.4  
Any entity or entities comprising Contractor shall apply 
for consent, at least ninety (90) calendar days before the proposed 
effective date of the Transfer; which application shall include 
evidence to Minister of the financial and technical competence of 
the Transferee together with a valuation and all material terms of 
the transfer.  
 
 
31.5  
Each assignee or Transferee shall within thirty (30) days 
after the effective date of the assignment or Transfer comply with 
the requirements of Articles 10.1 and 10.2. 
 
31.6 
For each assignment or Transfer made by any entity or 
entities comprising Contractor the following rates shall apply to 
the amounts or value of the consideration: 
 
(a) For every dollar of the first US$100 million: 1% 
(b) For every dollar of the next US$100 million: 1.5% 
(c) For every dollar thereafter: 2% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
31.7  
The Minister reserves the right to employ the services of 
an independent consultant, at the cost of Contractor or any of the 
entities comprising Contractor, to be mutually agreed by Minister 
and such entity, to carry out an independent valuation of the 
transaction.  The final determination of the valuation shall remain 
with Minister and will be subject to the applicable rates stated in 
Article 31.7 above.  
 
31.8  
Should an assignment or Transfer referred to under this 
Article occur without such entity first obtaining the required 
consent of Minister, it may result in the forfeiture of this 
Contract at the sole discretion of Minister. 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
85
ARTICLE 32 
 
APPLICABLE LAW 
 
32.1  
The validity, interpretation and implementation of the 
Contract shall be governed by the laws of the Republic of Trinidad 
and Tobago. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
86
ARTICLE 33 
 
CONSULTATION, EXPERT DETERMINATION 
 
AND ARBITRATION 
 
33.1  
The Parties shall make their best effort to settle 
amicably through consultation any dispute arising in connection 
with the performance or interpretation of any provision hereof. 
 
33.2  
If any dispute referred to under this Article has not 
been settled through such consultation within ninety (90) days 
after the dispute arises either Party may by notice to the other 
Party propose that the dispute be referred either for determination 
by a sole expert or to arbitration in accordance with the 
provisions of Article 33. 
 
33.3  
Following the giving of notice under Article 33.2, the 
Parties may, by mutual agreement, refer the dispute for 
determination by a sole expert to be appointed by agreement between 
the Parties.  Such sole expert shall be an internationally 
recognized specialist in the interpretation of the subject under 
dispute. If the Parties are unable to agree on designation of the 
expert within thirty (30) days following the giving of notice under 
Article 33.2, the expert shall be named by an internationally 
recognized organisation to be agreed to by the Parties.  
 
33.4  
As an alternative to the procedure described in Article 
33.3 and if agreed upon by the Parties, such dispute shall be 
referred to arbitration by an agreed sole arbitrator. 
 
33.5 (a) If the Parties fail to refer such dispute to a sole 
expert under Article 33.3 or to a sole arbitrator under 
Article 33.4, within sixty (60) days of the giving of notice 
under Article 33.2, the dispute shall be referred to 
arbitration.  The arbitration shall be conducted by three (3) 
arbitrators in accordance with the the Arbitration Rules of 
the United Nations Commission on International in effect on 
the Effective Date of the Contract. 
 
(b) Where arbitration is resorted to either by the sole 
arbitrator under Article 33.4 or arbitral tribunal, the 
Arbitration Rules of the UNCITRAL Rules in effect on the 
Effective Date of the Contract shall be used. 
 
33.6  
The English language shall be the language used in the 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
87
expert or arbitral proceedings.  All hearing materials, statements 
of claim or defence, award and the reasons supporting them shall be 
in English. 
 
33.7  
The place of the expert determination or arbitration 
shall be in Trinidad and Tobago. 
 
33.8  
In the case of a request by Contractor pursuant to 
Article 17.6 (e) for final determination by an expert of whether a 
disputed charge is subject to cost recovery, such expert shall be 
an internationally recognized specialist in interpretation of 
Petroleum contracts with experience in verifying costs of Petroleum 
Operations.  If the Parties are unable to agree on designation of 
the expert within thirty (30) days after Contractor's request under 
Article 17.6 (e) for the expert determination, the expert shall be 
named by the International Chamber of Commerce.  The waiting period 
required by Article 33.2 shall not apply to this type of expert 
determination. 
 
33.9 (a) Any decision by the expert determination, sole arbitrator 
or arbitral tribunal shall be final and binding upon the 
Parties. Such decision shall be rendered within sixty (60) 
days after the completion of the expert determination or 
arbitration proceedings.   
 
(b) Judgment for execution of any award rendered by the 
expert determination, sole arbitrator or arbitral tribunal may 
be entered by any court of competent jurisdiction without 
review of the merits of such award. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
88
ARTICLE 34 
 
FORCE MAJEURE 
 
34.1  
No delay, default, failure or omission by either Party in 
the performance of any obligation under this Contract shall be 
considered as a breach of the Contract if such delay, default or 
omission is due to force majeure, as defined in Section 19(2) of 
the Act.  The Party claiming force majeure shall notify the other 
in writing as soon as possible and take all reasonable and 
necessary measures to resume full execution of performance 
hereunder as soon as possible. 
 
34.2  
Notwithstanding anything in Article 34.1 (and without 
prejudice to the generality thereof) the following events or 
circumstances shall not be treated as being force majeure or caused 
thereby: 
 
(a) failure by either Party to pay money when due or fulfill 
any financial obligation under this Contract; 
 
(b) the insolvency of Contractor or any entity constituting 
Contractor. 
 
34.3  
If the Petroleum Operations are partially or totally 
suspended as a result of force majeure, the duration of the period 
directly affected by such suspension shall be extended by a period 
corresponding to the period of the suspension which in no event 
shall be more than two(2) years. 
 
34.4  
Contractor may terminate this Contract upon a three (3) 
month written notice to Minister if the fulfillment of the 
obligation of either Party under this Contract is affected by Force 
Majeure during the Exploration Period or any extension thereof for 
a continuous period exceeding two (2) years without further 
obligation and liabilities of any kind. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
89
ARTICLE 35 
 
NOTICES 
 
35.1  
Any notice, report and other communications required or 
given under this Contract shall be deemed given when delivered in 
writing either by hand, in person or through the registered mail, 
courier service or fax transmission, appropriately addressed as 
follows: 
 
TO THE MINISTER 
 
(i) 
By Hand or Mail:- 
 
Permanent Secretary 
Ministry of Energy and Energy Industries 
Level 9, Riverside Plaza 
Besson Street 
Port of Spain.  Trinidad & Tobago 
Telefax No. (868) 625 0306 
 
 
 
     TO CONTRACTOR 
 
(i) By Hand or mail - 
 
Official designated under Article 10.1 
 
     
35.2  
Each of the Parties may change its address or addresses 
or representative for purpose of receiving notices by giving at 
least ten (10) days prior written notice of the change to the other 
Party. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
90
ARTICLE 36 
 
TERMINATION 
 
36.1  
The Minister shall have the right to terminate the 
Contract and to take without consideration all property of whatever 
nature belonging to Contractor in Trinidad and Tobago related to 
the Contract Area if Contractor fails: 
 
(a) to fulfill the obligations provided for in Articles 7 or 
14 hereof; or, 
 
(b) to conform to the provision of an arbitration award or 
expert determination under Article 33 hereof.  
 
36.2   
Contractor shall have the right to terminate this 
Contract by electing to relinquish the entire Contract Area 
pursuant to the conditions specified in Article 5. 
 
36.3  
If either Party to the Contract commits a material breach 
of Contract, the other Party shall have the right to terminate the 
Contract using the following procedure: 
 
(a) The Party claiming the right to terminate shall give 
notice to the other Party specifying the particular material 
breach complained of, and requiring the other Party, within 
ninety (90) days of such notice, to remedy the same or make 
reasonable compensation to the complaining Party, as the case 
may be; 
 
(b) If the Party receiving the notice fails to comply with 
said notice, the complaining Party may, after the expiration 
of the ninety (90) days notice, forthwith terminate this 
Contract provided that in the event the issue of whether there 
has been a material breach has been referred to arbitration or 
expert determination under Article 33, the complaining Party 
may not exercise its power of termination until the result of 
arbitration or expert determination is known.  The Party which 
elects to refer the dispute to arbitration or expert 
determination must be diligent in pursuing its claim in such 
proceedings.  Failure to pursue such claim diligently will 
entitle the complaining Party to exercise its right to 
terminate in spite of the referral to arbitration or expert 
determination. 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
91
36.4  
Contractor shall have the right to terminate this 
Contract in accordance with the provisions of Article 34.4. 
 
36.5  
This Contract may be terminated prior to the end of the 
Contract term, by express agreement of the Parties or in accordance 
with the provisions of Article 4.2. 
 
36.6  
Upon the termination of this Contract by either Party all 
rights granted to Contractor and all obligations imposed on 
Contractor hereunder shall terminate, subject and without prejudice 
to any rights which may have accrued to Minister or to Contractor 
under this Contract. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
92
ARTICLE 37 
 
ABANDONMENT PROGRAMME, BUDGET AND ESCROW ACCOUNT 
 
37.1  
Within sixty (60) days after cessation of production  or 
the sooner relinquishment of some or all of the Contract Area, 
Contractor shall carry out to Minister's satisfaction an 
abandonment programme agreed with Minister for all installations 
and pipelines provided by Contractor under this Contract that 
Minister elects not to have delivered up to him in accordance with 
Article 24.1.  With respect to the area being relinquished and/or 
facilities thereon, such abandonment programme shall comply with 
internationally accepted standards prevailing at the time of 
abandonment. 
 
37.2  
Contractor shall establish an interest bearing escrow 
account in the name of Minister at a financial institution approved 
by Minister to accumulate cash reserves for use as a contingency 
fund against possible pollution and eventual abandonment of wells 
and decommissioning of facilities related to Petroleum Operations 
in the Contract Area. 
 
37.3  
Contractor shall pay twenty five (25) cents in the 
currency of the United States of America per barrel of oil 
equivalent produced into said escrow account. 
 
37.4  
The Minister may at his sole discretion access funds from 
the escrow account in the event that Contractor fails to effect 
environmental clean-up during the term of this Contract, or 
properly abandon wells, or decommission facilities to the 
satisfaction of Minister upon termination of this Contract. Where 
Minister accesses the escrow account as aforementioned Contractor 
shall be required to pay into the account the sum used for said 
purposes within sixty (60) days. 
 
37.5  
Not later than five (5) years before the earlier of:  
 
(a) the scheduled expiry of the term of the Contract; or 
  
(b) Contractor's anticipated termination of Production of a 
Field or of operation of a pipeline; 
 
Contractor shall submit for Minister's approval a proposed 
abandonment programme and budget covering all such installations 
and pipelines provided by Contractor under this Contract. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
93
 
37.6  
The Minister shall act without unreasonable delay in 
reaching a decision on Contractor's proposal under Article 37.2 and 
may approve or modify or impose conditions thereon.  Before 
modifying or imposing conditions on the proposal, Minister shall 
notify Contractor of the proposed modification or conditions and 
give Contractor the opportunity to make written representations 
within sixty (60) days thereafter about the proposed modifications 
or 
conditions. 
 
After 
taking 
into 
consideration 
such 
representations Minister and Contractor shall make their best 
efforts to mutually agree on the proposed modifications or 
conditions of the abandonment programme and budget.  In the event 
that Minister and Contractor cannot mutually agree on the proposed 
abandonment programme and budget, either Party may by written 
notice to the other Party propose that the dispute be referred for 
determination in accordance with the provisions of Article 33. 
Until such time that the determination has been made, Contractor 
shall make payments into the escrow account referred to in Article 
37.5, based on its proposed abandonment programme and budget.  
After the determination is made, Contractor shall adjust the 
payments to such escrow account to reflect the abandonment 
programme and budget so determined. 
 
37.7  
In the event that Contractor does not present a timely 
proposal to Minister under Article 37.2 Minister, after giving 
thirty (30) days notice to Contractor of his intention to do so, 
may prepare an abandonment programme and budget for the Contract 
Area if Contractor does not present a proposal by the end of the 
thirty (30) day period.  When Minister has so prepared the 
abandonment programme and budget, it shall have the same effect as 
if it had been submitted by Contractor and approved by Minister.  
 
37.8  
The approved budget for carrying out the approved 
abandonment programme shall be provided for by monies paid into the 
escrow account established under Article 37.2. In addition to the 
payments made under Articles 37.3 and 37.4 Contractor shall also 
pay into the account a per unit of production assessment.  If the 
approved budget is less than the value of the escrow account, 
Contractor shall pay the difference based on a per unit of 
production assessment. The assessment shall be calculated dividing 
the difference between the approved budget and the value in the 
escrow account by the estimated units of production to be produced 
and saved by Contractor between the date of Minister's approval and 
the anticipated date of the abandonment. 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
94
37.9  
Upon determination of the Contract, where Contractor 
fulfills all obligations in respect of environmental remediation, 
abandonment of wells and decommissioning of facilities to the 
satisfaction of Minister, all existing funds in the Escrow account 
shall remain with Minister. If the escrowed amount is insufficient 
to complete the approved programme, Contractor shall pay all such 
additional required costs.  In the event Minister elects to have 
the facility delivered up to him, the escrow account shall be 
transferred to Minister, who shall assume all responsibility for 
the facility, its abandonment and hold Contractor harmless against 
any liability with respect thereto accruing after the date of such 
transfer to Minister. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
95
ARTICLE 38 
 
THE PETROLEUM ACT AND REGULATIONS 
 
38.1  
 
Pursuant to Section 6 (4) of the Act, the Parties 
have agreed that this Contract sets out comprehensively the rights 
and obligations of the Parties with regard to matters otherwise 
covered by the Act and the Petroleum Regulations provided that any 
provisions regarding safety incorporated in the Regulations, Rules 
and/or Orders as Minister may issue from time to time shall apply 
to Contractor.   
 
38.2  
So much only of the Act and the Regulations as are not 
excluded by the Contract shall apply to Contractor, and where any 
provision of the Act or the Regulations is modified by this 
Contract for the purposes of this Contract, the Act and the 
Regulations shall be read and construed accordingly, and where 
there is any conflict or variance with reference to any matter 
between the provisions of this Contract and the Act or the 
Regulations, the provisions of this Contract shall prevail. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
96
Article 39 
 
Local Content 
 
39.1  
Contractor shall comply with the Government’s Local 
Content Policy in force and as modified from time to time.   
 
39.2  
Contractor shall maximize to the satisfaction of Minister 
the level of usage of local goods and services, businesses, 
financing and the employment of nationals of the Republic of 
Trinidad and Tobago.  
 
39.3      Contractor shall ensure that sub-contracts are sized, as 
far as it is economically feasible and practical to match the 
capability (time, finance and manpower) of Local Enterprises and 
shall manage the risk to allow their participation. 
 
39.3  
Contractor shall provide to Minister together with the 
annual work programme and budgets required under Articles 14 and 15 
a list of all projects to be undertaken as well as all goods and 
services that are required for the conduct of Petroleum Operations. 
 The Minister and Contractor shall agree on a list of those 
projects and goods and services which shall be published in at 
least two local newspapers and on the Ministry’s website. 
 
39.4  
All tenders are to be advertised, evaluated and awarded 
in Trinidad and Tobago.  Contractor shall apply to Minister for 
prior approval where the circumstances warrant that any part of the 
tender process be conducted outside of Trinidad and Tobago. 
 
39.5  
Contractor 
shall 
give 
equal 
treatment 
to 
Local 
Enterprises by ensuring access to all tender invitations and by 
including high weighting on local value added in the tender 
evaluation criteria. 
 
39.6  
Contractor shall give assurance to Local Enterprises in 
respect of prompt payment for goods and services actually provided 
to Contractor and its Subcontractors both foreign and local. 
 
39.7  
Contractor shall ensure the development of people by 
imparting to nationals technology and business expertise in all 
areas of energy sector activity including but not limited to: 
 
(i) 
Fabrication 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
97
(ii) 
Information Technology support, including seismic 
data acquisition, processing and interpretation support 
 
(iii) 
Operations and maintenance support 
 
(iv) 
Maritime services 
 
(v) 
Business support services, including accounting, 
human resource services, consulting, marketing and 
contract negotiations 
 
(vi) 
Financing 
 
(vii) Trading 
 
39.8  
Contractor shall ensure that nationals are selected and 
trained consistent with Contractor’s performance standards in 
relation to activities referred at 39.7. 
 
39.9  
In addition to the requirements in Article 39.7 
Contractor shall ensure that the development of people in key areas 
allow nationals to take more value-added, analytical and decision 
making roles in areas: 
 
(a) of a technical or professional nature including general 
management, design engineering, project management, seismic 
data processing, human resource development, legal; and 
 
(b) business strategic skills including leadership, business 
development, executive management, commercial, analytical, 
negotiating, strategy development and trading know how and 
acumen. 
 
39.10  
In accordance with its obligations under Article 10.4 
Contractor shall maintain records to facilitate the determination 
of the Local Content of expenditure incurred in respect of 
Petroleum Operations.  These records shall include supporting 
documentation certifying the cost of local materials, labour and 
services used and shall be subject to audit by Minister. 
 
39.11 
Pursuant to Article 13 of Annex C Contractor shall 
prepare and submit reports to Minister in accordance with the 
specified timeframe.             
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
98
ARTICLE 40 
 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
40.1  
This Contract may not be amended, or any provision hereto 
waived, except by a written amendment executed with the same 
formality as this Contract by the Parties hereto and expressly 
stated to be a modification or waiver of this Contract. 
 
40.2  
The headings of this Contract are for convenience of 
reference only and shall not be taken into account in interpreting 
the terms of this Contract.  A reference to the singular in this 
Contract includes a reference to the plural and vice versa. 
 
40.3  
The provisions of this Contract shall inure to the 
benefit of and be binding upon the Parties and their permitted 
assignees and successors in interest. 
 
40.4  
No waiver by any Party of any one or more obligations or 
defaults by any other Party in the performance of the Contract 
shall operate or be construed as a waiver of any other obligations 
or defaults whether of a like or of a different character. 
 
40.5  
In case any one or more of the provisions contained in 
this Contract should be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any 
respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining 
provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or 
impaired thereby provided that the remaining provisions are 
enforceable and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision or 
provisions are not fundamental to this Contract. 
 
40.6  
No deemed approval under Articles 13, 14 or 15 or 
otherwise of this Contract shall result in the extension of any 
phase of this Contract. 
 
 
40.7    This Contract supersedes and replaces any previous 
agreement or understanding between the Parties whether oral or 
written on the subject matter hereof, prior to the date of this 
Contract. 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
99
AS WITNESS WHEREOF --------------------, Director of Surveys acting 
on behalf of His Excellency George Maxwell Richards, the President 
of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago has hereunto set his hand 
the          day of            , 2006 and Senator Dr. the 
Honourable Lenny Saith, Minister of Energy and Energy Industries 
has hereunto set his hand the         day of  
2006.  The Corporate Seal of -------------------------------- was 
hereunto affixed the      day of           , 2006.  
 
 
SIGNED AND DELIVERED by the       ) 
within-named -------------------  ) 
Director of Surveys, as           ) 
and for the act and deed of the   ) 
President of the Republic of      ) 
Trinidad and Tobago in the        ) 
presence of:                      ) 
 
 
 
 
 
And of me, 
 
 
 
 
SIGNED AND DELIVERED by the     
) 
within-named, Senator Dr. the Honourable    ) 
LENNY SAITH, Minister of             
            ) 
Energy and Energy Industries as and for    
) 
his act and deed in the presence of:       
) 
                                                         
 
 
 
                        
 
 
And of me, 
 
 
___________________________________ 
 
     
 
 
      Attorney-at-Law 
 
 
Deep Onshore 
 
 
 
 
100
The Corporate Seal of  
          )  
                          was      ) 
hereunto affixed by                ) 
 
                                   ) 
Manager,   
 
 
 
 
) 
                                   ) 
in the presence of:                    ) 
                                                           
) 
Vice President                     ) 
in conformity with the Articles    ) 
of Incorporation of said       
) 
Company as and for the act and     ) 
deed of the said Company in the    ) 
presence of:                       ) 
 
) 
Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
            
 
 
 
 
) 
) 
 
  
 
The Corporate Seal of              ) 
                     was  
 
) 
hereunto affixed by  
 
 
) 
                
          ) 
Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
                                   ) 
Attorney-in-fact pursuant to a     ) 
Power of Attorney, Registered as 
) 
No.       of      dated       ,    ) 
 
          ) 
in conformity with the By-Laws     ) 
of the said Company as and for the ) 
act and deed of the said Company   )  
in the presence of:                 
                
 
      
                     
 
 
) 
                                   ) 
                                   ) 
                                                    
 
 
And of me,  
